The Project Gutenberg EBook of The Orchid Album, Volume 2, by 
Robert Warner and Benjamin Samuel Williams and Thomas Moore

This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.

Title: The Orchid Album, Volume 2
       comprising coloured figures and descriptions of new, rare,
       and beautiful Orchidaceous Plants

Author: Robert Warner
        Benjamin Samuel Williams
        Thomas Moore

Illustrator: John Nugent Fitch

Release Date: March 22, 2019 [EBook #59109]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8

*** START OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ORCHID ALBUM, VOLUME 2 ***




Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Carol Spears and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net









                                  THE
                             ORCHID ALBUM,


                               COMPRISING
                   COLOURED FIGURES AND DESCRIPTIONS
                                   OF
                        NEW, RARE, AND BEAUTIFUL
                          ORCHIDACEOUS PLANTS.


                              CONDUCTED BY
                    ROBERT WARNER, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
                 Author of SELECT ORCHIDACEOUS PLANTS,
                                  AND
              BENJAMIN SAMUEL WILLIAMS, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
               Author of the ORCHID-GROWERS’ MANUAL, etc.

     The Botanical Descriptions by THOMAS MOORE, F.L.S., F.R.H.S.,
                CURATOR of the CHELSEA BOTANIC GARDENS.

          _THE COLOURED FIGURES BY JOHN NUGENT FITCH, F.L.S._


                               VOLUME II.


                                LONDON:
                      Published by B. S. Williams,
                                 AT THE
          VICTORIA AND PARADISE NURSERIES, UPPER HOLLOWAY, N.
                             MDCCCLXXXIII.

                               DEDICATED
                         BY SPECIAL PERMISSION
                                   TO
                    _H.R.H. The Princess of Wales,_
                                   BY
                          HER ROYAL HIGHNESS’
                                      Very obedient and humble Servants,
                                                          ROBERT WARNER,
                                                   BENJAMIN S. WILLIAMS.




                            INDEX TO PLATES.


                                                                   PLATE
  ADA AURANTIACA, _Lindley_                                           53
  CATASETUM CHRISTYANUM, _Rchb. f._                                   83
  CATTLEYA ACLANDIÆ, _Lindley_                                        69
  CATTLEYA CRISPA BUCHANANIANA, _Williams & Moore_                    81
  CATTLEYA DOWIANA AUREA, _Williams & Moore_                          84
  CATTLEYA LABIATA, _Lindley_                                         88
  CATTLEYA SCHOFIELDIANA, _Rchb. f._                                  93
  CŒLIA BELLA, _Rchb. f._                                             51
  CŒLOGYNE CRISTATA ALBA, _Moore_                                     54
  CŒLOGYNE PANDURATA, _Lindley_                                       63
  COMPARETTIA MACROPLECTRON, _Rchb. f. et Triana_                     65
  CYPRIPEDIUM FAIRRIEANUM, _Lindley_                                  70
  CYPRIPEDIUM MEIRAX, _Rchb. f._                                      95
  CYPRIPEDIUM PARISHII, _Rchb. f._                                    86
  DENDROBIUM FINDLEYANUM, _Parish & Rchb. f._                         92
  EPIDENDRUM WALLISII, _Rchb. f._                                     74
  EULOPHIA GUINEENSIS PURPURATA, _Rchb. f._                           89
  LÆLIA ANCEPS, _Lindley_                                             75
  LÆLIA AUTUMNALIS ATRORUBENS, _Backhouse_                            49
  LÆLIA PERRINII, _Lindley_                                           60
  MASDEVALLIA DAVISII, _Rchb. f._                                     76
  MASDEVALLIA IGNEA, _Rchb. f._                                       62
  MILTONIA REGNELLI PURPUREA, _Hort. Veitch_                          72
  ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ GUTTATUM, _Hooker fil._                     94
  ODONTOGLOSSUM CORADINEI, _Rchb. f._                                 90
  ODONTOGLOSSUM CRISTATELLUM, _Rchb. f._                              66
  ODONTOGLOSSUM GRANDE, _Lindley_                                     79
  ODONTOGLOSSUM HEBRAICUM LINEOLIGERUM, _Rchb. f._                    85
  ODONTOGLOSSUM LONDESBOROUGHIANUM, _Rchb. f._                        82
  ODONTOGLOSSUM MACULATUM, _Lindley_                                  52
  ODONTOGLOSSUM MADRENSE, _Rchb. f._                                  71
  ODONTOGLOSSUM PESCATOREI VEITCHIANUM, _Rchb. f._                    68
  ODONTOGLOSSUM ROEZLII, _Rchb. f._                                   64
  ODONTOGLOSSUM TRIUMPHANS, _Rchb. f._                                58
  ONCIDIUM PHALÆNOPSIS. _Lind. et Rchb. f._                           96
  PESCATOREA LEHMANNI, _Rchb. f._                                     57
  PHAIUS TUBERCULOSUS, _Blume_                                        91
  PHALÆNOPSIS MARIÆ, _Burbidge_                                       80
      _See_ Note under Plate 87.
  SACCOLABIUM GIGANTEUM, _Lindley_                                    56
  SCUTICARIA STEELII, _Lindley_                                       55
  THUNIA BENSONIÆ, _Hooker fil._                                      67
  VANDA HOOKERIANA, _Rchb. f._                                        73
  VANDA PARISHII MARRIOTTIANA, _Rchb. f._                             61
  VANDA ROXBURGHII, _R. Brown_                                        59
  VANDA TRICOLOR, _Lindley_                                           77
  VANDA TRICOLOR PLANILABRIS, _Lindley_                               87
  ZYGOPETALUM CLAYII, _Rchb. f._                                      50
  ZYGOPETALUM ROSTRATUM, _Hooker_                                     78




                      INDEX TO NOTES AND SYNONYMS.


                                                             UNDER PLATE
  Aërides Lobbii Ainsworthii, Dr. Ainsworth’s                         53
  Bifrenaria bella, _Lemaire_                                         51
  Bletia anceps, _Rchb. f._                                           75
  Bletia Perrinii, _Rchb. f._                                         60
  Bletia tuberculosa, _Sprengel_                                      91
  Bothriochilus bellus, _Lemaire_                                     51
  Cattleya aurea, Mr. Percival’s                                  70, 84
  Cattleya gigas burfordiensis, Sir T. Lawrence’s                     50
  Cattleya labiata, Mr. Gaskell’s                                     75
  Cattleya Mossiæ, Mr. De Barry Crawshay’s                            93
  Cattleya Perrinii, _Lindley_                                        60
  Cattleya Skinneri oculata, Mr. Hardy’s                              94
  Cattleya superba, Mr. Schneider’s                                   64
  Cattleya Trianæ alba, Mr. E. Wright’s                               82
  Cattleya Trianæ Russelliana, Baron Schröder’s                       83
  Cattleya virginalis, Mr. Percival’s                                 64
  Cattleya Warneri, Mr. Southgate’s                                   51
  Cattleyas, high-priced                                              94
  Cœlogyne cristata hololeuca, _Rchb. f._                             54
  Cymbidium tesselloides, _Roxb._                                     59
  Cypripedium Parishii, Mr. A. Paul’s                                 70
  Dendrobium Dearei, Sir T. Lawrence’s                                93
  Disa grandiflora superba, Mr. Heywood’s                             58
  Dodgson, Richard Barton, Esq., death of                             52
  Epidendrum labiatum, _Rchb. f._                                     88
  Lælia superbiens, Mr. A. H. Smee’s                                  83
  Limodorum tuberculosum, _Du Petit-Thouars_                          91
  Maxillaria Steelii, _Hooker_                                        55
  Mesospinidium aurantiacum, _Rchb. f._                               53
  Odontoglossum Alexandræ, Mr. Buchan’s fine variety of               68
  Odontoglossum coronarium miniatum, Lord Rendlesham’s                67
  Odontoglossum grande, Mr. Walker’s                                  72
  Odontoglossum Jenningsianum, Mr. R. Smith’s                         68
  Odontoglossum Lehmanni, _F. C. Lehmann_ in litt.                    66
  Odontoglossum lyroglossum, Mr. Harvey’s                             87
  Odontoglossum maxillare, _Hook. f., non Lindley_                    71
  Odontoglossum triumphans, Mr. Gordon’s                              89
  Oncidium Phalænopsis, Mr. E. Salt’s                                 69
  Orchids at Bickley                                              60, 64
  Orchids at Brentham Park, Stirling                                  65
  Orchids at Chislehurst                                              55
  Orchids at the Edinburgh Horticultural Exhibition, September, 1882  62
  Orchids at Fallowfield                                              54
  Orchids at the Manchester Exhibition, May, 1882                     49
  Orchids at New-Hall-Hey                                             50
  Orchids at Pickering Lodge, Timperley                               82
  Orchids at Sudbury House, Hammersmith                               92
  Orchids at The Kilns, Falkirk                                       66
  Orchids at Woolton Wood, Liverpool                                  80
  Orchids in France (Ferrières)                                       63
  Orchids in France (Gouville)                                        61
  Orchids, Baron Alphonse de Rothschild’s                             63
  Orchids, Comte de Germiny’s                                         61
  Orchids, Lord Rendlesham’s                                          94
  Orchids, Mr. Lee’s (Downside)                                       71
  Orchids, effects of Fog on                                          76
  Orchids for the Drawing-room                                        79
  Orchids, watering                                               57, 59
  Phaius Bensoniæ, _Hemsley_                                          67
  Phaius tuberculosus, Baron Schröder’s                               81
  Phaius tuberculosus, Sir T. Lawrence’s                              81
  Phalænopsis Mariæ, _Burbidge_                                       87
  Vanda densiflora, _Lindley_                                         56
  Vanda suaveolens, _Blume_                                           77
  Vanda tessellata, _Lodd._                                           59
  Vanda tesselloides, _Rchb. f._                                      59
  Vanda tricolor, continuation                                        78
  Vandas flowering in a small state                                   74
  Vandas, Mr. Lee’s (Downside)                                        90
  Zygopetalon Lehmanni, _Rchb. f._                                    57
  Zygosepalon rostratum, _Rchb. f._                                   78

    [Illustration: PL. 49.
    LÆLIA AUTUMNALIS ATRORUBENS.]




                      LÆLIA AUTUMNALIS ATRORUBENS.
                              [Plate 49.]
                           Native of Mexico.


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, terete, furrowed, bearing two
  or three leaves at the attenuated apex, and sheathed at the base with
  large brown imbricated scales. _Leaves_ oblong-linear, spreading,
  smooth, leathery in texture. _Scape_ terete, issuing from between the
  leaves, and much longer than them, bearing five or six flowers at the
  apex, jointed, with sheathing scales at the joints. _Flowers_ large
  and richly-coloured, much more so than in the typical form,
  sweet-scented; _sepals_ lanceolate acuminate, spreading, of a
  brilliant purple-crimson, paler towards the base; _petals_ ovate
  acuminate, subundulate, of the same colour as the sepals; _lip_
  three-lobed, the lateral lobes erect, truncately rounded, white, the
  middle lobe obovate-oblong, of an intensely brilliant purple-crimson
  colour, bilamellate on the disk, the apex recurved. _Column_
  semicylindrical, decurved, rosy purple.

  Lælia autumnalis atrorubens, _Backhouse_, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., xii., 232.


Mr. Bateman has well observed that “the genus _Lælia_ may be regarded as
one of the most ornamental of its tribe, since pleasing colours,
graceful habit, long duration, and delicious perfume—in short, all the
essentials of floral beauty seem to be combined in its various species.”
There is, indeed, no doubt that in this genus some of the most showy of
our cultivated Orchids are to be found. There are, moreover, species
presenting many different hues, varying from yellow to rich purple, and
while some of them produce small flowers, in others they are gigantic in
size. The subject of our plate, as will be seen from the figure, is a
magnificent Orchid, our drawing of which was taken from a well-managed
specimen grown by Mr. Stevens, Gardener to W. Thompson, Esq., The
Grange, Walton, Stone, Staffordshire. This particular variety was
imported in 1878 by Messrs. James Backhouse & Son, of York, who grow it
to great perfection.

There are many known varieties of _Lælia autumnalis_, but the one before
us is by far the most beautiful of them all, being superior both as
regards the size and the colour of the flowers. The pseudobulbs of this
form, too, are much stouter and stronger than those of the type form.
This variety, as also does the original _Lælia autumnalis_, blooms
during the autumn and winter months, when flowers are in great request.

_Lælia autumnalis atrorubens_ is a compact-growing evergreen plant, the
pseudobulbs of which, with the foliage, attain to about ten inches in
height. The flower-spikes are produced from the apex of the bulb just at
the period when it has completed its growth; they each produce several
flowers, which are of large size and stout substance, and of a rich
crimson-magenta or purple-crimson colour, and last two to three weeks in
perfection.

This plant grows naturally in exposed situations, and on this account,
no doubt, we find that it likes plenty of sun and as much light as
possible, just enough shade being given to prevent the foliage from
burning. The conditions best suited to it are that it should be planted
in a basket or pan, and suspended from the roof of the cool house; or if
fastened to a block placed on a damp wall, this will suit it equally as
well. It should receive a copious supply of water during the growing
season; and in warm weather syringing will be found beneficial to it in
the morning, and also when the house is shut up in the afternoon.


Orchids at the Manchester Exhibition, May, 1882.—The Orchids were a
marvellous sight, and probably such a magnificent display of these
glorious plants was never before seen. The plants, many of which bore
grand masses of blossom of many rich shades of colour, were arranged
along both sides of the large Exhibition house in the Gardens at Old
Trafford, and had been brought together from different parts of the
country, as well as from the vicinity of Manchester. Everyone who
possesses a taste for horticulture—and especially for the wonderful
productions of nature which have been brought from distant lands by our
plant collectors, and are transmitted to our exhibitions both by amateur
growers and nurserymen, so that the public may be able to see all these
treasures at one view—should avail themselves of the opportunity of
witnessing this exhibition. The entrance fee is only one shilling, and
besides Orchids there is always provided a grand display of other
plants, too numerous to mention. It is gratifying to learn that 51,000
persons availed themselves of the opportunity to visit this grand show
of 1882. We may venture to add that the Council of the Manchester
Botanical and Horticultural Society, and Mr. Findlay, the Curator of the
Gardens, are doing a great benefit to the horticultural world, as well
as to the general public, by bringing such multitudes of fine plants
together, while at the same time they secure a good revenue for carrying
on the gardens, and afford much gratification to the subscribers, who
can thus at their ease feast their eyes upon nature’s beauties to an
extent they could not do even if they travelled to the various native
habitats of the plants—for even there no one could possibly witness such
a diversified display at one point. The best advice we can give to those
who are fond of flowers is to go next year and see for themselves, as
the specimens are too numerous to be mentioned in our limited space. The
show is held annually, and continued during Whit-week, the last being
the sixteenth anniversary.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 50.
    ZYGOPETALUM CLAYII.]




                          ZYGOPETALUM CLAYII.
                              [Plate 50.]
                           _A Garden Hybrid._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong, furrowed, two to three inches long.
  _Leaves_ lorate-lanceolate, narrowed towards the base, nervose,
  persistent, about a foot and a half in length when mature. _Scape_
  radical, many-flowered, as long as the leaves. _Flowers_ large and
  very showy; _sepals_ oblong, lanceolate, acute, the lateral ones
  spreading, purplish brown with green margin and indistinct transverse
  bands, forming broad blotches, which are often obscurely defined;
  _petals_ narrower, lanceolate acute, directed forwards, of the same
  colour as the sepals; _lip_ broad, obcuneate, emarginate, bent upwards
  abruptly at the base towards the column, so as to form a blunt chin,
  and again bent downwards, having two projecting points or auricles at
  the back, the front portion narrow at the base, nearly one and a half
  inch wide, indistinctly three-lobed, furnished on the disk with a
  raised plaited ruff or frill, the colour in the best forms a deep
  violet-purple, with darker purple lines. _Column_ stout, with two
  small incurved lobes just below the anther bed, dark mottled purple
  behind, and streaked with purple in front.

  Zygopetalum Clayii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., vii., 684.


It gives us great pleasure to be able to figure one of the finest hybrid
Zygopetalums that has yet been raised in this country, and one,
moreover, which is totally distinct from any other member of the genus.
The plant will be appreciated by growers of Orchids on account of the
uncommon colour of its lip—blue being a colour that is seldom met with
amongst Orchidaceous plants, but one which is, nevertheless, in great
request.

The present novelty was raised by Colonel Clay, of Birkenhead, some few
years ago, and was the result of a cross between _Zygopetalum crinitum_
and _Z. maxillare_. The hybrid was exhibited at one of the meetings of
the Royal Horticultural Society, in May, 1877, and was awarded a
Certificate of Merit. Since that time we have acquired the stock of this
plant from Colonel Clay, and have bloomed several specimens. The form
represented by our artist in the accompanying plate bloomed in the
Victoria and Paradise Nurseries in March last. We have also bloomed
another variety, somewhat different from the foregoing in the markings,
the colours being the same; the lip was in this case slightly blotched,
and the sepals and petals were suffused with brown.

_Zygopetalum Clayii_ is a free-growing evergreen plant, with foliage
reaching to about eighteen inches in height. It produces its flowers at
different periods of the year, at the time when it is starting into
growth. The flowers are borne in upright spikes from the base of the
young growths. The sepals and petals are brownish purple, with a narrow
green border, and sometimes distant cross lines of green, while the lip
is broad, and of a dark purplish blue. The plant lasts in bloom for
about two months.

It is a very free-growing Orchid, requiring exactly the same treatment
as _Zygopetalum Mackayi_, and other familiar species. The Cattleya house
will be found to suit it best, and it should be grown in a compost of
good fibrous loam with a little leaf-mould added. Being naturally a
strong fleshy rooting plant it requires a good supply of water during
the growing season. It is best cultivated in a pot.


Orchids at New-Hall-Hey.—When visiting the collection of G. W. Law
Schofield, Esq., New-Hall-Hey, Rawtenstall, near Manchester, we noticed
the finest variety of _Dendrobium lituiflorum_ we have ever seen. It
bore seventy of its lovely showy blossoms, the sepals and petals of
which were of a very dark purple colour, and the lip white, edged with
purple; this was one of the richest coloured Orchids we have seen. We
also noticed a grand variety of _D. crassinode superbum_, each blossom
being three and a half inches across, and of a very good colour.
Associated with this was _D. MacCarthiæ_, which one seldom sees, though
it bears some of the most beautifully bright pinkish rose and white
flowers that can be imagined, and they are of good size and substance.
Of _Odontoglossum vexillarium_ there was a plant which had upon it
forty-one of its richly coloured flowers, each measuring four and a half
inches across. In the Cattleya house was a very fine _Cattleya Mossiæ
grandis_, with sepals and petals of a delicate rose colour, and the lip
large, of a rich magenta, with a lighter margin, each blossom measuring
eight inches across. There is here a newly erected house for Cattleyas,
which are doing well, and reflect great credit upon Mr. J. Wise, the
gardener, who takes very great interest in his plants, everything being
kept in good order.—B. S. W.


Cattleya gigas burfordiensis.—We noticed a wonderful example of
_Cattleya gigas burfordiensis_ at a recent meeting of the Royal
Horticultural Society. It was exhibited by Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart.,
M.P., and was deservedly awarded a First Class Certificate. The plant
bore four very fine blossoms, each measuring more than eight inches in
diameter; the sepals and petals were of a beautiful rose colour, the lip
large, three inches across, and of a deep amethyst colour, edged with
dark purple-rose, the throat being orange, and the upper portion folded
over the column of the same rich rosy purple colour as the lip. The
plant was in a very vigorous state of growth, and the flowers stood up
well, so as to give it an imposing appearance. It is no doubt one of the
finest of the Cattleyas.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 51.
    CŒLIA BELLA.]




                              CŒLIA BELLA.
                              [Plate 51.]
                         _Native of Guatemala._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ roundish-ovate, sub-compressed, pale green,
  the older ones oblong-ovate. _Leaves_ of a light green colour, about
  ten inches in height, three or four from the top of the pseudobulb,
  narrow ensiform acuminate, plicate, five-ribbed, convolutely sheathing
  at the base. _Scape_ radical, short, clothed with bifarious sheathing
  bracts, four to seven-flowered. _Flowers_ of moderate size,
  tricoloured, emitting a very sweet odour, the _perianth_ tubular
  below, funnel-shaped above, the _bracteoles_ oblong, obliquely
  dimidiate; _sepals_ and _petals_ similar, somewhat fleshy in texture,
  creamy white tipped with magenta-rose, the upper sepal shorter, oblong
  obtuse, terminating abruptly at the pedicel, the lateral ones produced
  behind into a blunt spur adnate to the base of the column; _lip_
  yellow, produced at the base, and abruptly replicate, forming a
  cucullate cavity enclosed within the spur, oblong, three-lobed, the
  lateral lobes short quadrate, the middle lobe linguiform acute, with a
  large fleshy orange-coloured convex callosity occupying the disk.
  _Column_ white, broadly cuneate, three-toothed at the apex.

  Cœlia bella, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 218; _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 6628.

  Bifrenaria bella, _Lemaire_, _Jardin Fleuriste_, iii., t. 325.

  Bothriochilus bellus, _Lemaire_, _L’Illustration Horticole_, iii., 30.


We have in this plant a representative of a small genus of Orchids, few
of the species of which are worthy of cultivation. That now before us
is, however, a very pretty and curious plant, as will be seen by a
glance at our plate. We believe that _Cœlia bella_ was introduced about
thirty years ago by the Messrs. Loddiges, of Hackney, but at the present
time it is extremely scarce. Lemaire, by whom it was described and
figured in 1853, in the volume of _Jardin Fleuriste_ above quoted,
states that it was introduced about the same period, from the Island of
St. Catherine’s, to the Belgian Gardens, by M. Ambroise Verschaffelt,
through his collector, M. F. Devos, but Sir Joseph Hooker has recently
pointed out that there are specimens of it in Lindley’s Herbarium,
collected in Guatemala by Mr. Skinner, and that, like its congeners, it
is probably a native of Central America. For the opportunity of
preparing our figure, we are indebted to the courtesy of J. C. Bowring,
Esq., Forest Farm, Windsor Forest, by whom it is flowered freely every
year.

_Cœlia bella_ is a compact-growing evergreen plant, with small globose
or ovoid pseudobulbs of a light green colour. The ensiform foliage is
also light green, and grows about ten inches high. The flower-spikes
proceed from the base of the pseudobulbs, and produce four to seven
funnel-shaped flowers on each spike. The sepals and petals are of a
creamy white hue, tipped with rich magenta, while the lip is yellow, the
whole perianth being very thick and fleshy in texture. The plant
produces its blossoms during the autumn months, and succeeds well if
cultivated in a pot with plenty of good drainage; fibrous peat should be
used for potting, and a liberal supply of water should be given during
the growing season, which is just after the flowering period.

The temperature of the Cattleya house will be found to suit this
_Cœlia_, or it may be grown in a moist stove. We have often seen plants
of this kind do better in a house wherein miscellaneous stove plants are
grown than in the Orchid house, which we believe is owing to their
obtaining under these conditions more moisture and light, two things in
which most Orchids delight. We mention this in order that cultivators
may know and understand that there are various Orchids which can be
grown, and grown well, in company with other subjects in an ordinary
plant stove. We ourselves have found that many of the species do best in
a house where such plants as Crotons, &c., are grown. Dendrobiums
especially like this treatment, under which the bulbs attain much larger
dimensions, and become better ripened. It is quite an erroneous idea
that Orchids all require special houses for their successful
cultivation. This certainly is not the case, as some of the finest
Cattleyas, Vandas, Dendrobes, Phalænopsis, &c., that we have ever met
with, have been cultivated in ordinary plant stoves, where they get a
little shade from the burning rays of the sun.


Cattleya Warnerii.—A well-bloomed plant of this noble Orchid was
exhibited at the Royal Horticultural Society, South Kensington, on June
13th, by C. L. Southgate, Esq., of Streatham. This specimen was an
example of what can be produced by giving a plant the treatment it
likes—for such must have been the case in this instance. The plant was
in an eight-inch pot, and bore three fine spikes of blossoms, one having
six, another five, and the third four flowers upon it, all expanded. The
sepals and petals were of a beautiful rose colour, the lip a rich
crimson, finely fringed, and marked with orange on the upper part. It
was altogether a very striking object, and was greatly admired for the
profusion of blossom produced in so small a pot. We mention this plant
in order that our readers may know how abundantly it can be bloomed, as
we often hear cultivators say that it does not flower freely, a theory
which in this case must undoubtedly be wrong. The freeness of blooming
evinced by this plant may be owing to the smallness of the pot in which
it is grown; it may, therefore, be well for others to follow Mr.
Salter’s example in this respect, since he has been so successful in
cultivating it.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 52.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM MACULATUM.]




                        ODONTOGLOSSUM MACULATUM.
                              [Plate 52.]
                          _Native of Mexico._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong, compressed, usually bearing a
  solitary leaf, other leaves with equitant articulated petioles
  investing the bulb. _Leaves_ oblong, acute, five to seven nerved, of a
  parchment-like texture, and a bright green colour. _Scape_ radical,
  bearing a many-flowered pendulous or semi-erect raceme, furnished with
  boat-shaped brownish herbaceous bracts shorter than the ovaries.
  _Flowers_ prettily spotted, about two and a half inches in breadth,
  and upwards of three inches in depth; _sepals_ linear-lanceolate,
  acuminate, green or stained with brown outside, chestnut brown within,
  marked with green transverse bars at the base; _petals_ oblong
  undulate acuminate, chrome-yellow, thickly spotted with brownish red
  on the basal half; _lip_ unguiculate, cordate acuminate, sub-crenate,
  of the same colour as the petals, with a concave two-valved emarginate
  purple-veined appendage on the claw. _Column_ white, pubescent,
  obsoletely auriculate near the apex.

  Odontoglossum maculatum, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1840, t. 30;
  _Id._, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Odontoglossum_, No. 11; _Pescatorea_,
  t. 28; _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 829; _Bateman_, _Monograph of Odontoglossum_, t.
  20; _Floral Magazine_, t. 348 (as maculosum); _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 237.


The Odontoglossums are amongst the most popular of Orchids. They are not
only esteemed for their fine showy flowers but for their long lasting
qualities, and they can nearly all be grown in houses with a low
temperature. The species we now bring before the notice of our readers
is a most distinct and desirable one, which has been known in
cultivation for many years. The drawing from which our plate was
prepared was taken from a plant that flowered in the collection of W.
Salt, Esq., of Ferniehurst, Shipley, Yorkshire, who has a grand lot of
cool Orchids, which are, moreover, exceedingly well cultivated.

_Odontoglossum maculatum_ is not only free but compact in its growth. It
has thick fleshy pseudobulbs, and light green foliage, and the
individual plants produce their sub-erect spikes of flowers at different
times of the year, according to the period of the completion of their
growth. The flowers are very strikingly beautiful, being of a colour
that one seldom sees in Orchids, and they continue for a long time in
perfection when protected against damp. The colour, however, varies in
different plants. The form originally figured in the _Botanical
Register_ has the sepals green outside, and chestnut-brown within; that
published in the _Pescatorea_ has the sepals represented as brownish
purple in front, paler purple behind, with green tips on both surfaces;
and the form figured in the _Floral Magazine_, if correctly rendered,
had the greenish sepals indistinctly spotted with brown.

This species, as do many other Mexican Orchids, likes a light position,
with plenty of air on warm days, and a good supply of water during the
growing season. Propagation is effected by division of the pseudobulbs
in the usual way.


Death of Richard Barton Dodgson, Esq., Beardwood, Blackburn.—We are very
sorry to have to record the death of one who has done so much for
horticulture as our good friend Mr. Dodgson. All who knew him must feel
deeply grieved at the loss of such an amiable and kind-hearted
gentleman—for such he was, not only to us, but to all who came into
contact with him; of this, the expressions of gratification that have
emanated from all who have paid Mr. and Mrs. Dodgson a visit, supply
abundant evidence. The reception given by him to Gardeners, Nurserymen,
&c., when calling to see his collection of plants, was always a most
cordial one, and whether it was to one or a dozen persons it never
varied. All who were acquainted with Mr. Dodgson know how fond he was of
his Plants, especially his Orchids. In the collection at Beardwood there
are some of the finest specimens that can anywhere be seen, and also
many rare varieties that are not to be met with elsewhere. This
collection has been forming for many years, and it was always Mr.
Dodgson’s study to procure the best kinds possible. Many persons will be
able to recall the fine specimens exhibited from Beardwood at the
Manchester, Blackburn, and Preston Shows, and will recollect that when
the Royal Horticultural Society held their large Exhibition at Preston,
Mr. Dodgson took most of the first class honours in the classes in which
he exhibited. He was most kind and liberal to his Gardeners, giving them
every encouragement in carrying out their duties, and they in their
turn, were always ready to wait upon him. During his illness he would
often express a wish to see his favourite plants as they came into
bloom, and these were accordingly taken into his bedroom by his
Gardener, and proved a great source of delight to him in the midst of
his severe sufferings. We regret that the available space in the _Album_
is so limited or we should have said more. We have figured and described
from time to time some fine plants from the Beardwood collection, and we
have yet other illustrations taken by our artist, which will be
published at some future time. We must again express our deep and
sincere regret at the loss of such a devoted patron of Horticulture.—B.
S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 53
    ADA AURANTIACA]




                             ADA AURANTIACA
                              [Plate 53.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ sub-cylindrical, tapering upwards, three to
  four inches long, sheathed with reddish scales at their base. _Leaves_
  terminal, channelled, broadly linear, four to six inches long, one to
  three in number. _Scape_ terminal, longer than the leaves, bisquamate,
  bearing a drooping spike of from ten to fourteen rather distichously
  placed flowers, which have each a scariose lanceolate-subulate bract
  at its base. _Flowers_ brightly coloured, the perianth closed below,
  and only opening in the upper part; _sepals_ sub-equal, of a bright
  orange or cinnabar-red, spreading only from above the middle,
  linear-lanceolate, much acuminate, the lateral ones somewhat oblique
  at the base; _petals_ smaller, but similar in form and colour; _lip_
  of the same bright orange-red, undivided, parallel with the column,
  and adnate to its base, lanceolate, shortly acuminate, scarcely half
  the length of the sepals, with a crest formed of two connate
  membranaceous lamellæ, pubescent inside near the base. _Column_ short,
  thick, wingless; anther case hemispherical; _pollen-masses_ two,
  obovate, seated on a cuneate caudicle, arising from a gland.

  Ada aurantiaca, _Lindley_, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Ada_; _Hooker_,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5435; _Bateman_, _Second Century of
  Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 113; _André_, _L’Illustration Horticole_, 3
  ser., t. 107; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 62.

  Mesospinidium aurantiacum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales
  Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 857.


This is the only member of the genus _Ada_ with which we are yet
acquainted, and even this is by some authorities referred to
_Mesospinidium_. Whether forming a distinct genus or not, it is a well
marked and charming Orchid, one by means of which a fine contrast of
colour can be insured in the arrangements made for the decoration of our
Orchid houses. The accompanying plate was taken from a fine specimen
which bloomed in the Victoria and Paradise Nurseries, but as our page is
limited in size only a portion of the plant could be represented. This
plant bore twenty of its graceful and brilliantly-coloured spikes of
flowers. When thus successfully cultivated no one could fail to admire
the _Ada aurantiaca_, the more so as it is one of the Orchids which
thrive in a cool house, and plants can be purchased at a very small
cost.

_Ada aurantiaca_ is an evergreen species of remarkably free habit. It
grows about ten inches high, and has foliage of a fine dark green
colour. It produces its flower spikes from the young growths, between
the leaves, one or two together, the spikes being drooping towards the
extremity and the flowers of a bright orange-scarlet colour. These
flowers are produced during the winter and spring months, and last for
several weeks in perfection.

The species is a native of New Grenada, where it is found at the great
elevation of 8,000 feet, consequently it will grow well with Odontoglots
under cool treatment. Some years ago it was very rare, but now, thanks
to our collectors, it is more plentiful, and hence has become popular.
It is a most important decorative plant on account of its colour, which,
as a contrast, is especially useful when placed amongst the Odontoglots.
We have found it most effective when it is brought into close
association with the delicate colours of _O. Alexandræ_ and _O.
Pescatorei_ the effect obtained by the intermixture is altogether
charming.

The _Ada_ requires the same treatment as the Odontoglots. The potting
material best suited to its growth is good fibrous peat, with plenty of
drainage. It will thrive either in a pot or in a basket, and in potting
it should be well elevated above the rim, so that the roots can work
freely among the material in which it is potted. The soil should be kept
moist during the growing season, but on no account must the moisture be
allowed to become stagnant, a condition which can be prevented by using
charcoal mixed with the peat, which will keep the drainage open, and
allow the water to pass off. If the soil should by any mischance become
soddened it must be removed and fresh soil made use of, the roots at the
same time being well washed previously to repotting.

Shade is very essential to the well being of the foliage, as the leaves
are apt to go spotted if the sun is permitted to shine upon them. In its
native country it is found in shady places, and hence will not bear full
exposure, although in its artificial home it likes all the light
possible.


Aërides Lobbii Ainsworthii.—We have received a grand spike of this
beautiful Orchid from R. F. Ainsworth, Esq., M.D., of Lower Broughton,
Manchester. It is one of the darkest and best varieties that has come
under our notice. The same plant was exhibited a few years ago at the
Royal Horticultural Society’s Show at Preston, and it was the admiration
of every one who saw it. Mr. Mitchell, the gardener, informs us that it
blooms in the same style every year. The spikes are more than two feet
long, and well branched, while the colour of the flowers is very bright
and effective, so that it makes a fine exhibition plant. This variety is
much darker and brighter in its markings than the type.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 54.
    CŒLOGYNE CRISTATA ALBA.]




                        CŒLOGYNE CRISTATA ALBA.
                              [Plate 54.]
                           _Native of India._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong, becoming somewhat angulate, growing
  from a thick scaly rhizome, diphyllous. _Leaves_ linear-lanceolate,
  somewhat flaccid. _Scape_ radical, erect, bearing a drooping raceme of
  three to five flowers, furnished at the base with dry brown imbricated
  scales; _bracts_ oblong, persistent, sheathing the stalked ovaries.
  _Flowers_ large, fragrant, about four inches in diameter; _sepals_
  oblong-lanceolate, acuminate, undulate, white; _petals_ similar to the
  sepals in form and colour; _lip_ three-lobed, concave, everywhere pure
  white, the lateral lobes half oblong, truncate at the upper end, and
  somewhat broader than the small middle lobe, which is transversely
  roundish and obtusely dentate; on the disk are five parallel veins or
  lamellæ covered by delicate fringes, which are also white, the three
  central ones having a wavy plate at their base, while in front of the
  two which stand on each side the middle vein is a solid plate
  terminating abruptly.

  Cœlogyne cristata alba, _Hort._; _Moore_, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., xv., 442; _Id._, N.S., xv., 511; _Id._, N.S., xvii., 153.

  Cœlogyne cristata hololeuca, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S., xv., 563; _Bull_, _Catalogue of New Plants, 1882_,
  100.


All Orchidists know well the old type of _Cœlogyne cristata_, which has
been in cultivation for many years, and which is one of the most useful
plants we have for winter decoration. In the novelty we now introduce we
have a pure white form of this plant, which is a most charming addition
to our collections, and which will assuredly be sought after by all
Orchid growers. We are indebted to the kindness of Mr. W. Bull, of the
King’s Road, Chelsea, for the opportunity of figuring this choice
variety. It was first made known last year at the Regent’s Park Spring
Exhibition, by Mr. J. D. Richards, gardener to T. A. Titley, Esq.,
Gledhaw, Leeds, who obtained for it a well merited First Class
Certificate, and shortly after the plant passed into the hands of Mr.
Bull, who gained another Certificate with it at South Kensington, and
has the honour of having introduced to the public a most lovely novelty.
The variety is extremely rare, Mr. Bull having only a very limited
number of plants. As will be seen from our plate it will make a most
useful plant for cutting, since pure white flowers are so highly
appreciated for bouquets and other decorative purposes.

The new variety is in all respects similar to the type, save in the
absence of the yellow blotch upon the lip. It is a compact-growing
evergreen plant, attaining the same dimensions as regards foliage and
bulbs as _Cœlogyne cristata_ itself, and producing its pure white
spotless flowers in the same manner, four or five together on a drooping
spike; it blossoms during the winter and spring, and lasts for two or
three weeks in beauty if the flowers are kept dry. It is both a
free-growing and a free-blooming plant, and will no doubt thrive either
in the Odontoglossum or Cattleya house. If cultivated in a cool house we
should recommend that the plants be taken into a warmer structure when
they begin to show flower. We have always found _C. cristata_ to be
greatly benefited by this treatment, as the spikes are apt to damp off
in too cool an atmosphere; moreover, on account of their pure white
colour they seem to absorb the cold damp more quickly and readily than
many other flowers, and this of course soon disfigures them.

We have found good fibrous peat the best material in which to grow
_Cœlogyne cristata_, and no doubt the variety we now figure will require
the same treatment, as the two forms are found growing together in their
native country. Pot culture will suit them best, as they require a good
amount of water at their roots during their growing season, which can
thus be secured. After the growth is completed less water will suffice,
but they must always be kept so far moist at the root that their bulbs
may remain in a plump firm condition.


Orchids at Fallowfield.—In this, which is one of the noted collections
near Manchester, _Dendrobium Falconeri_ was the first plant that
attracted attention; it is a choice kind, and there was a fine specimen
of it with two hundred of its bright purple, white, and orange-coloured
flowers in full beauty. This was an exceedingly well cultivated plant.
Mr. Swan, the gardener, informs us that he has had this specimen for
several years under cultivation, and that it improves each successive
season, and has been several times exhibited at the Manchester Shows. We
mention this in order that our readers may understand that this species
can be cultivated successfully for years with proper treatment. We also
noticed the charming _Thunia Bensoniæ_, with many spikes of its reddish
purple flowers, some of the spikes producing as many as eighteen flowers
on each spike. When grown in this way it forms a grand object of
attraction, especially as we possess but few Orchids of the same colour.
We also noticed some fine spikes of _Oncidium macranthum_, bearing its
bright yellow flowers, and when grown among the plants of _Odontoglossum
Alexandræ_, with their pure white blossoms, it produces with other
flowers a good effect. We also saw in the East India house some fine
plants of _Aërides Lobbii_ finely in bloom, some of their racemes of
bright coloured flowers being three feet in length and branched. _A.
crassifolium_ was in full beauty; it is one of the best of its family,
and one that should be grown in every collection, as it occupies such a
small space.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 55.
    SCUTICARIA STEELII.]




                          SCUTICARIA STEELII.
                              [Plate 55.]
                      _Native of British Guiana._


  Epiphytal. _Rhizome_ short, articulated, branched, ebulbous, the
  branches monophyllous. _Leaves_ flagelliform, as thick as a swan’s
  quill, channelled, subulate at the apex, two to four feet long,
  drooping. _Scape_ radical, short, one to three flowered. _Flower_
  large, fragrant, with the perianth connivent; _sepals_ oblong, the
  lateral ones produced at the base into a blunt chin, pale
  primrose-yellow, blotched with deep reddish brown; _petals_ of the
  same form and colour as the sepals; _lip_ three-lobed, pale yellow,
  striately marked with brownish crimson, especially on the lateral
  lobes, which are roundish erect, the intermediate one bilobed, with
  roundish, subcuneate, divergent divisions, and bearing at the base an
  oblong callus having three obtuse orange-coloured teeth in front.
  _Column_ semiterete, decurrent with the base of the lateral sepals, so
  as to form a blunt spur or chin; _pollen-masses_ four, sessile, in
  pairs, on a dilated transverse gland, acuminate at both ends.

  Scuticaria Steelii, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, xxix., misc., p.
  14; _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices Systematicæ_,
  vi., 551; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 292.

  Maxillaria Steelii, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 3573;
  _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, t. 1986.


This is a small genus of Orchids separated from _Maxillaria_ by Dr.
Lindley, and generally adopted. The few species are distinct in their
habit of growth, as also in reference to the manner in which they
produce their flowers. That which we now figure is one of the best as
yet known. Our drawing was taken from a plant in the collection of W.
McDonald, Esq., Woodlands, Perth, who has many fine specimen Orchids,
and among them some choice species. We may state that Mr. McDonald often
sends us specimens of beautiful Orchids, such as we are always very glad
to receive from any growers, either for the purpose of naming, or with
the view to their illustration in the _Album_.

_Scuticaria Steelii_ is a native of British Guiana. The foliage is
terete, pendulous, and of a dark green colour, three to four feet in
length, and tapering off to a point; in fact it is almost like a rush in
its form. The flower spikes proceed from the rhizome at the base of the
leaves; they are about two inches high and generally three-flowered. The
sepals and petals are yellow, irregularly spotted with brownish crimson,
while the lip is yellow, striped with crimson. The plant blooms at
different times of the year, and continues a long time in perfection.
When in flower it is a very attractive object, those who see it in bloom
being astonished to find such a beautiful inflorescence proceeding from
the peculiar rush-like foliage, and when hanging from the roof of the
house the whole plant has a very singular and handsome appearance.

The plants thrive best grown on blocks of wood, with a little live
sphagnum moss about their roots; if the moss should become decayed it
must be removed and renewed by fresh. They will also grow on rough
blocks of wood without moss, but when cultivated in this way they
require the more frequent application of moisture to keep their roots
active. We have seen them thrive well in baskets, planted in rough
fibrous peat, but grown in this way they do not look so well. They
should be hung up as near to the glass as possible, in the full light,
as they require but little shade. They will do either in the Cattleya or
East India house. A good supply of water must be given during the
growing season, but less when their growth is completed. These plants
are not easy to increase, as they do not like to be divided.


Orchids at Chislehurst.—When calling in July last on W. Vanner, Esq., at
Camden Wood, Chislehurst, we were pleased to find some beautiful Orchids
in bloom in the show house, which is a square lofty structure, with
tables round the sides, and chairs and seats in the centre. The Orchids
are here shown off to the best advantage, intermixed with foliage and
flowering plants, the flowering Orchids being brought into this house as
they come into bloom. We noticed some fine plants of _Lælia purpurata_
in full beauty, one variety with rose-coloured sepals and petals, and a
beautifully veined rich dark amethyst lip, was especially fine.
_Cattleya Mendelii_ was well represented, one plant having six spikes of
bloom—a grand plant and the picture of health. _Lælia elegans_ was also
in bloom, a fine large variety, with a very richly-coloured lip. We also
saw here two specimens of the finest varieties of _Odontoglossum
hastilabium_ we have ever met with, having large branching spikes, one
with seventy flowers upon it; the sepals and petals were creamy white,
barred with purple, the lip white, with a purple base. This is a grand
exhibition Orchid, as it lasts a long time in perfection.

In the next house were some fine plants of _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_;
one variety in particular was very fine, having rose-coloured sepals and
a very large finely spotted lip. The Bull’s-blood variety of
_Masdevallia Harryana_ was in good form; also _M. Harryana læta_ and _M.
Harryana lilacina_, a very pretty light-coloured variety, with rosy
lilac flowers. _Sobralia macrantha_ was also very finely in flower, as
well as many other good things in bud, or making good growth for another
year.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 56.
    SACCOLABIUM GIGANTEUM.]




                         SACCOLABIUM GIGANTEUM.
                              [Plate 56.]
                          _Native of Burmah._


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ short, producing from the basal portion thick fleshy
  roots. _Leaves_ subsecund, leathery, broadly lorate with the apex
  oblique and bilobed, about a foot long and two inches broad,
  channelled, the surface streaked. _Racemes_ densely flowered,
  drooping, about equalling the leaves in length, axillary. _Flowers_
  very numerous, handsomely spotted, and remarkably fragrant, with
  broad, short, membraneous bracts at their base; _sepals_ oblong or
  cuneate-ovate, obtuse, white, with a few amethyst dots; _petals_
  narrower, obovate, white, more freely spotted with amethyst; _lip_
  wedge-shaped, dilated, and trifid at the apex, the central portion
  short, ligulate, and slightly retuse, and the lateral parts
  semi-rhomboidal, all being of a beautiful mauve-violet or magenta
  colour, veined with darker lines; from the short conical spur two
  elevated hairy lines pass outwards, diverging in the middle, and
  reuniting at the contracted portion of the lip. _Column_ greenish,
  short, reclinate, the anther with a stout beak.

  Saccolabium giganteum, _Lindley_, in _Wallich’s Catalogue_, 7306;
  _Id._, _Genera and Species of Orchidaceous Plants_, 221; _Bateman_, in
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5635; _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t. 8;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 287.

  Vanda densiflora, _Lindley_, in _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, under t. 42;
  _Id._, _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Vanda_, No. 22; _Van Houtte_, _Flore
  des Serres_, tt. 1765-66; _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales
  Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 869.


There can be no doubt as to the position that the Saccolabiums occupy in
the Orchid family—they certainly rank among the very finest of the whole
race. They are not very numerous, but among the known species there are
some which are of great beauty. They used to be exhibited in splendid
style some quarter of a century ago by the late S. Rucker, Esq., of
Wandsworth, Mrs. Lawrence, of Ealing Park, Dr. Butler, of Woolwich, and
also from other fine collections then in existence, at which time there
was seldom an exhibition group staged without a fine specimen of
_Saccolabium guttatum_, or some other equally fine species. Now,
however, we rarely see them shown. Orchid growers appear to have
forgotten this noble class of plants, and many beginners think that they
are difficult to cultivate, but we ourselves have never found them to be
so, and, together with other nurserymen, we are growing and selling
specimens every year. Where can the greater part of these go to? Why
they are purchased by foreigners, who seem to have a greater taste than
we have in this country for these most wonderful of all Orchids, which
even when not in bloom are objects of attraction from their noble aspect
and graceful foliage. Our illustration of _S. giganteum_ was taken from
a plant which bloomed in the Victoria and Paradise Nurseries, Holloway.
It blooms during the winter months, which adds to its value, as there
are but few Saccolabiums which flower at that season of the year. The
species, at first referred to _Saccolabium_ by Lindley, was afterwards
transferred by him to _Vanda_, under the name of _V. densiflora_.

_Saccolabium giganteum_ is a slow growing plant, and makes about three
leaves a year; from the axils of these the flower spikes emerge, and
extend to the length of ten or twelve inches. The plant continues in
bloom for about six weeks, the flowers, moreover, are deliciously
fragrant, which is an additional recommendation, indeed this species
possesses all the good qualities a plant can possess, and, if strong,
blooms freely when only a few inches high. We have seen a very fine
specimen of it in the beautiful collection of C. Walker, Esq., Brettagh
Holt, Milnthorpe, bearing many flower spikes, all of good length; it was
a noble object, one that Mr. Walker might well be proud of. We were
surprised three years ago to receive, amongst some imported masses, one
which stood three feet high, forming quite a pyramid of young growths,
and carrying from twenty to thirty spikes; other masses were also of
great size.

We have found this _Saccolabium_ to grow well in the East India house,
where the temperature by fire-heat during winter is kept at about 60°
during the night and 65° during the day. When the sun causes the heat to
rise above this, air should be given, avoiding cold draughts. The plants
require plenty of light, but must be shaded during the spring and summer
months, when the temperature should be about 65° by night and 70° by
day, or with sun-heat 75°. During June, July, and August it should range
from 70° to 75° by night and 75° to 80° by day. The house should be
moistened twice a day in summer—in the morning and in the afternoon,
about three or four o’clock, when it may be closed for the night,
always, however, keeping a certain amount of air on, but not sufficient
to interfere with the temperature.

We find the best material for growing the Saccolabiums in is fresh clean
sphagnum moss, with good drainage. If grown in pots these should be
nearly filled with drainage material, and the plants placed on sphagnum
moss and kept well elevated above the pot rim. They will do well in
baskets suspended from the roof, so that their roots can hang in the
moist atmosphere. They require a good supply of moisture during the
summer season, and also in autumn, but in winter less will suffice,
indeed during this season they must never be allowed to get too wet,
though the moss must be kept damp. They have no thick fleshy bulbs to
fall back upon for support, and therefore if they are allowed to become
too dry they will shrivel, and lose their lower leaves, which is a great
disfigurement. The plants must always be kept free from insects.

    [Illustration: PL. 57.
    PESCATOREA LEHMANNI.]




                          PESCATOREA LEHMANNI.
                              [Plate 57.]
                   _Native of the Andes of Ecuador._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ none, or consisting of a short crown or growing
  point, from which the leaves, with their narrowed overlapping bases
  and the stout fibrous roots proceed. _Leaves_ lorate-lanceolate acute,
  upwards of a foot long, and from an inch to an inch and a half wide,
  of thin, firm texture, ribbed. _Scapes_ radical, much shorter than the
  leaves, bracteate, one-flowered. _Flowers_ large, upwards of three
  inches across, showy, white striped with purple; _sepals_ and _petals_
  broadly cuneate oblong, obtusely rounded, with a short projecting
  point, white, with contiguous curved parallel lines of reddish purple
  extending nearly to the edge; _lip_ deep mauve-purple, the basal
  segments small, triangular, erect, the interposed calli forming a ruff
  of chestnut-brown, consisting of about eleven ridges, the anterior
  mauve-coloured portion oblong, revolute, retuse, covered with lines of
  long bristle-like purple papillæ. _Column_ stout, curved forwards,
  purple and rounded behind, brown in front, the anther case whitish
  green.

  Pescatorea Lehmanni, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., xii., 424.

  Zygopetalum Lehmanni, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., xii., 424.


The genus _Pescatorea_ is one of recent introduction. A few years ago
the plants referred to it were unknown, but latterly they have been met
with by botanical collectors, and have gradually found their way to our
Orchid houses, some very beautiful species being included amongst them.
_Pescatorea Lehmanni_, represented in the accompanying illustration, is
one of these. It was exhibited a short time since at the Royal
Horticultural Society, South Kensington, by Messrs. Vervaet & Co.,
Nurserymen, of Ghent, Belgium, and on that occasion was deservedly
awarded a First Class Certificate. It was from this specimen, which was
a well-grown one, that our plate was taken. The plant was grown on a
block of wood, and thus placed had a really beautiful and attractive
appearance. The species was collected by Mr. Lehmann, in whose honour it
is named, and who has sent home many fine Orchids.

_Pescatorea Lehmanni_ is an evergreen plant, with broadish light green
ribbed foliage, which grows from twelve to eighteen inches in height.
The flowers are produced from the axils of the leaves at the base of the
very short stem, several proceeding from each tuft; they have the sepals
and petals white, striped with purple lines, while the lip is
mauve-coloured, covered with a number of hair-like papillæ, and having a
rich brown ruff or throat. The plant blooms after it has completed its
growth, and the flowers continue fresh for some considerable time; it
appears to yield its blossoms at different times of the year.

These plants are not generally well cultivated, but in the case of those
we saw at Messrs. Vervaet’s there seemed to be no difficulty about it.
They were fixed on blocks of wood, which appears the most natural method
of cultivating them; and no plants could be thriving better, producing
finer foliage, or flowering more profusely than these. The appearance
they presented when hanging from the roof was very charming, as the
flowers and plants both seemed to be in their natural position, which of
course conduces greatly to success in their cultivation, wherein it is
wise in most cases to follow natural habits as closely as possible. They
are found in their native country growing on the branches of trees in
moist places, and in consequence when suspended from the roof they
require abundance of water, which can easily be applied with a syringe
about the roots. We have seen them thrive well on blocks plunged in pots
of fibrous peat, but in this way they frequently fail, and after two or
three years’ growth the plants rot away. Of course there are exceptional
cases in which they grow well for a longer period; but they will, we
believe, be found to thrive better and last longer in a suspended
position, if they get shaded from the sun. Their leaves being broad and
thin are apt to become spotted if exposed to the full sun heat, but they
like plenty of light, which they get when hanging from the roof, besides
which their growth becomes more robust, and their foliage stands better.
We find the cool end of the East Indian house to suit them. They require
to be watered all the year round, not having bulbous stems to support
them, and they take little rest, being generally in full vigour. In
winter rather less water may be given, just sufficient to keep them
plump.

Insects must always be closely sought after, as the foliage of these
plants is tender, such as these pests delight to feed upon. The species
are propagated by dividing them where there are one or two back shoots,
with a young growth in front.


Watering Orchids.—We have found rain-water to be the best for Orchids
and for all kinds of plants, this being the water supplied in their
natural habitats. Rain-water is easily to be obtained, by providing
tanks under the stages, and allowing the rain-water to enter from the
roof; in this way no room is lost. A pump should be attached, in case
the water gets low in dry weather, when it can be easily raised to the
required height.

The plan we adopt is to have a deep cemented tank in the centre of the
house, under the stage, so that the top may be open; this allows the
water which is standing in the tank to become somewhat warmed by contact
with the atmosphere of the house, which is very beneficial; in fact,
Orchids should never be watered with water that has not had the chill
taken off, as cold water, especially in winter time, causes spot, and
may rot the growths and injure the roots. Into this tank the rain-water
runs from the roof, and as we have the New River water laid on as well,
when rain-water is scarce we fill up with this, and thereby have a
mixture of rain and hard water.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 58.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM TRIUMPHANS.]




                       ODONTOGLOSSUM TRIUMPHANS.
                              [Plate 58.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate oblong, two to three inches in length,
  furrowed when old, diphyllous. _Leaves_ oblong-lanceolate, acuminate,
  narrowed to the base. _Scape_ arising from the base of the
  pseudobulbs, elongate, the inflorescence racemose, the flowers having
  longish internodes between them, and the pedicels each furnished with
  a small triangular bract at its base. _Flowers_ large, handsomely
  spotted; _sepals_ oblong acute, narrowed to the base, deep golden
  yellow, marked for three-fourths of their length with transverse spots
  and blotches of rich brownish crimson; _petals_ similar in form and
  colour, somewhat broader, the margins lobulate or sinuate-dentate;
  _lip_ clawed, the limb fiddle-shaped, apiculate, with the point
  recurved, the margin denticulate, the basal half white with yellow
  crests, and the anterior portion of a rich brownish crimson, narrowly
  edged with yellow, the claw bicarinate, the keel running out into
  crests on the disk, with a pair of larger falcate crests interposed.
  _Column_ white, semi-terete, curved at the tip, with a rhombic
  minutely erose wing.

  Odontoglossum triumphans, _Reichenbach fil._, _Bonplandia_, ii., 99;
  _Id._, _Pescatorea_, t. 46 (less densely blotched, and lip tipped with
  rosy purple); _Lemaire_, _Illustration Horticole_, t. 609 (as in
  Pescatorea); _Bateman_, _Monograph of Odontoglossum_, t. 23;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 245.


The varied phases of beauty which are met with in the genus
_Odontoglossum_ are quite overwhelming; indeed so many of the species
are really fine plants that to describe and illustrate all that are
deserving would alone be a heavy task. We have now, at least, before us
a species of the _O. luteo-purpureum_ group which is quite distinct, _O.
triumphans_, which we may observe is one of the most useful to
cultivators, since it mixes up so well and forms so fine a contrast in
colour with the forms of the _O. Alexandræ_ type. The particular variety
we now illustrate, and which is a very remarkable one, was kindly sent
us by E. Wright, Esq., Gravelly Hill, Birmingham, who has been
cultivating Orchids for many years, and who has also sent us blossoms of
many other beautiful species. The spike of _O. triumphans_ here
represented was, it will be seen, a very fine one, having splendidly
marked and showy flowers. There are many varieties of this species, some
of them being lighter in colour than others; in fact there is an almost
endless variation among the imported plants owing no doubt to the chance
intercrossing of the parents, which has been effected by insects in
their native country, where so many of them are found in contiguous
spots. Our home cultivators too are taking a hint from the insect world,
and doing much service to floriculture by hybridising some of the
choicest forms of Orchids with remarkably good results. We hope their
success will encourage them to continue their pleasing and profitable
work.

_Odontoglossum triumphans_ is an evergreen plant, with pseudobulbs from
two to three inches in height, and foliage of a light green colour,
growing about twelve inches high. The flower-spikes are produced after
the plant has completed its growth; in some of the varieties these grow
two or three feet in length, with many flowers developed upon them. The
sepals and petals are of a golden yellow, barred with brownish crimson;
the lip is white at the base, its front portion having a large irregular
blotch of brownish crimson. It generally blooms during the spring and
winter months, and lasts for six or more weeks in beauty. This is a most
useful feature in the Odontoglots, as they can be used for decorative
purposes, and can be removed into living rooms without any injury to the
plant or flowers if due care be taken—that is to say, the heat need not
be higher than from 45° to 50°, they must not be placed near gas, and
the roots must be occasionally moistened.

As an example of the power of endurance possessed by these plants we may
mention that we took a plant packed in a box with other specimens to
America, and showed it at the Philadelphia Exhibition, where the
Odontoglot lasted some time in full beauty. We also took many other
Orchids in bud, and they flowered after their arrival, much to the
astonishment of the American cultivators. Mr. R. Warner carried an
Odontoglossum in full bloom to the St. Petersburgh Exhibition, and
afterwards, while still in blossom, showed it in London. We mention
these facts to show what may be done with these beautiful flowers.

_Odontoglossum triumphans_ requires the same treatment as _O. Alexandræ_
as regards temperature, material for potting, and moisture at the roots.


Disa grandiflora superba.—This grand Orchid is grown very successfully
by Mr. Elphinstone, gardener to John Heywood, Esq., the Grange,
Stretford, Manchester. We received from him a spike of it bearing seven
flowers—a perfect marvel of cultivation. We should like to see this
gorgeous plant better managed than it generally is, it being, when grown
as Mr. Elphinstone grows it, without exception the most showy Orchid in
cultivation.

    [Illustration: PL. 59.
    VANDA ROXBURGHII.]




                           VANDA ROXBURGHII.
                              [Plate 59.]
                           _Native of India._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ dwarf, stout, erect, leafy, with aërial roots from
  the lower portion. _Leaves_ two-ranked, evergreen, leathery, light
  green, ligulate, channelled, obliquely tridentate at the apex.
  _Flowers_ six to twelve, in erect axillary racemes longer than the
  leaves, tessellated; _sepals_ and _petals_ oblong-obovate, obtuse,
  undulated, white on the exterior surface, the inner side pale green,
  marked with olive-brown in chequered lines; _lip_ three-lobed,
  projected backwards near the middle to form a short pinkish spur; the
  lateral lobes lanceolate, sharp-pointed, about as long as the column,
  white; the middle lobe convex, with the sides inflected beneath,
  ovate, emarginate and very obtuse, channelled, violet-purple, deeper
  towards the apex. _Column_ short, thick, obtuse, white.

  Vanda Roxburghii, _R. Brown_, in _Botanical Register_, t. 506;
  _Lindley_, _Genera and Species of Orchidaceous Plants_, 215; _Id._
  _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Vanda_, No. 4; _Id._ _Paxton’s Flower
  Garden_, t. 42, fig. 2; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 2245; _Van
  Houtte_, _Flore des Serres_, ii., t. 11; _Wight_, _Icones Plantarum
  Indiæ Orientalis_, iii., t. 916; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_,
  5 ed., 307.

  Vanda tessellata, _Loddiges_; _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_, vii., 265
  (var. with rosy lip).

  Vanda tesselloides, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 864.

  Cymbidium tesselloides, _Roxburgh_, _Flora Indica_, iii., 463.


We now bring before our readers a plant that few of the present
generation of Orchid growers have seen, but one which we think they all
should possess, as it requires but little space, and produces its
flower-spikes on very small specimens. Our plate will give some idea of
this, as it represents a full-sized plant, with a spike of very
charmingly coloured flowers. There are several varieties of this species
known, among which we consider the one which our plate pourtrays to be
an excellent form. The plant represented is in the collection of W. Lee,
Esq., Downside, Leatherhead. We are delighted to know that Mr. Lee is
taking up the cultivation of the Vandas (of which he possesses a
splendid collection), and intends devoting a centre table in one of his
houses to their accommodation. There are no Orchids that flower so
freely when they are well grown; indeed, Mr. Lee blooms many plants of
_Vanda tricolor_ while quite small. When the specimens attain a large
size they flower two or three times a year, lasting each time some six
weeks, or even more, in perfection. They are extremely fragrant,
imparting a grateful odour to the whole atmosphere of the house. Other
growers also are paying more regard to these beautiful plants, which we
are glad to observe, as, though they flower so often, they do not
require so much heat as some East Indian kinds.

_Vanda Roxburghii_ is a dwarf compact growing plant, with light green
foliage. The flower-spikes proceed from the axils of the leaves, and are
upright, bearing from six to twelve flowers. The sepals and petals are
of a greenish yellow, netted with purplish brown, the lip being of a
bright mauve colour. This plant usually blossoms in May, and lasts six
weeks in full beauty; but it sometimes varies as to the time of
flowering.

The treatment which we find to suit this plant is to grow it in a basket
suspended from the roof, where it procures a good amount of light, being
merely shaded in summer when the sun is hot. It does best at the coolest
end of the East Indian house. We have also cultivated it in a pot with
good drainage and sphagnum moss; it requires a moderate supply of water
in summer, but in winter only just sufficient should be given to moisten
the moss.


Watering Orchids.—There can be no doubt that Orchids, like other plants,
are particular as to the fluids given to them to nourish their roots. We
often hear growers say, that the water obtainable in the particular
locality where they may reside is hard, and that their plants do not
thrive as they should do. We can fully sympathise with these men, as we
know that hard water is bad for Orchids as well as for other plants.
Hardwooded plants especially will not thrive if the water they receive
does not suit them; but it must be borne in mind that these plants have
fine hair-like roots, and are much sooner killed than Orchids which have
thick fleshy roots. When conversing the other day with an Orchid grower
from the north of England, who said that his plants were not doing well,
that he could not keep the sphagnum moss alive—which he attributed to
the use of hard water—and that he consequently put up a cistern for
rain-water, and employed that, we were not surprised to hear that the
result had been to improve the health of the plants, and that the moss
was now growing luxuriantly.

There is a great difference between different hard waters; some contain
a quantity of iron, while others contain lime; these when used for
syringing leave white marks upon the foliage. We believe water
containing chalk and lime to be beneficial to some kinds of Orchids,
especially Cypripediums; in fact, some growers use chalk or broken
limestone mixed with charcoal and peat to grow them in, and they succeed
very well in it. We have frequently seen distinct traces of lime on
imported Cypripediums. An importation of _Cypripedium Spicerianum_,
received some time ago, was literally covered with lime deposit,
probably owing to the plants having been found growing in the fissures
of limestone rocks, where the water trickled down upon them. We should
think that water containing iron would be the most injurious to Orchids.

    [Illustration: PL. 60.
    LÆLIA PERRINII.]




                            LÆLIA PERRINII.
                              [Plate 60.]
                          _Native of Brazil._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ (stems) club-shaped, under a foot in height,
  becoming furrowed when old. _Leaves_ solitary, oblong-obtuse, about as
  long as the stems, coriaceous, of a dark green colour. _Spathes_
  oblong, compressed, green, often tinged with purple. _Scape_
  two-flowered, purplish. _Flowers_ large, about six inches in
  expansion, richly coloured; _sepals_ linear-oblong, bluntish, the
  lateral ones falcate, of a diluted magenta-rose; _petals_ broader,
  oblong-lanceolate, of the same colour as the sepals; _lip_
  oblong-lanceolate, three-lobed, unguiculate, the base forming an
  inflated fistular cavity, the lateral lobes erect, acute, convergent
  over the column, the middle lip elongate, oblong-obtuse, wavy at the
  margin, the basal portion white inside, washed externally with
  magenta, the front part of an intense velvety purple-crimson.
  _Pollen-masses_ eight.

  Lælia Perrinii, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1842, under t. 62;
  _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_, xiii., 5; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s
  Manual_, 5 ed., 207.

  Cattleya Perrinii, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1838, t. 2;
  _Hastingen_, _Paradisus Vindobonensis_, i., t. 10.

  Bletia Perrinii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 421.


The _Lælia Perrinii_ is a very old species, and one that nearly all
Orchid growers have seen or had in their possession, but we do not
consider it too ancient to be introduced to the notice of our
subscribers. It is a useful acquisition to the Orchid house, as it
flowers when there are few Lælias, or any other Orchids in bloom. There
are several varieties of this _Lælia_, which vary in colour, some being
much paler than others. The form we here illustrate is part of an
importation we received a few years ago, many of which bore blossoms of
the same colour as that here represented. A pure white variety also came
from the same locality at the same time, but the latter is very rare,
there being only a few plants in this country. The white-flowered forms
seem to be making their appearance in many of the species of _Lælia_ and
_Cattleya_. We are glad to notice this, as they make a very pretty
contrast with the dark-coloured flowers, of which we have so many in
these two genera—genera which resemble each other very closely, the only
tangible difference being in the number of pollen-masses.

_Lælia Perrinii_ is an evergreen plant, with dark green foliage and
pseudobulbs, the leaves being about a foot high, and the pseudobulbs ten
inches. The flower-spikes proceed from the top of the bulbs, and issue
from a sheathing bract; they appear after the plants have completed
their growth. The sepals and petals are of a light tint of magenta
colour, while the lip is of a dark purple-crimson, with a rich yellow
throat. The species blooms in October and November, and continues for
about two weeks in perfection.

It requires the same treatment as _Cattleya Mossiæ_, and is best grown
in a pot with good drainage and fibrous peat. It must be kept moist at
the roots during the growing season, but after it has completed its
growth less water will do, that is, merely enough to keep the roots and
leaves in a plump state. When it recommences to grow a little water may
be applied to encourage it to make strong growths, which are the
precursors of finer flowers. The plants must be always fully exposed to
light by being kept near the glass.


Orchids at Bickley.—A recent visit to Oldfield, the residence of F. A.
Philbrick, Esq., Q.C., reminds us of the grand collection of Orchids in
Avenue Road, Regent’s Park, many of the best of which were sold on Mr.
Philbrick changing his residence. It is surprising to find the rapid way
in which a new collection is now being grown and brought together in the
new place. Houses had to be built, and the plants removed from one
garden to the other, which, of course, involves more or less of injury.
It is now twelve months since we visited this place, and the change that
has taken place in that interval in respect to the collection of Orchids
is remarkable, and highly creditable to Mr. Heims, the gardener. The
plants have real vigour about them, sending out their growths and making
roots freely, which is a sure sign they are doing well. The Cattleya
house is a well-built structure, having plenty of light, with provision
for a good circulation of air, two things very essential to the
successful cultivation of Orchids. Mr. Philbrick is doing the right
thing in securing the very best species and varieties, for, as he
remarked to us, “they take up no more room than the bad ones, which are
dear at any price.” We noticed some grand specimens of _Lælia purpurata_
in bloom, with many spikes of flowers, and there were some wonderful
varieties among them; also some large specimens of _Cattleya Mossiæ_ in
bloom. Of _Sobralia macrantha_ there were large specimens which had been
very fine; and of _Cattleya Mendelii_ some fine varieties. Near to these
stood several good Lælias, such as _L. elegans_, _L. anceps alba_, and
_L. anceps Dawsoni_, which were growing vigorously. _Epidendrum
ritellinum majus_ was at the time finely in bloom.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 61.
    VANDA PARISHII MARRIOTTIANA.]




                      VANDA PARISHII MARRIOTTIANA.
                              [Plate 61.]
                         _Native of Moulmein._


  Epiphytal. _Plant_ dwarf, compact, evergreen, the _stem_ short, with
  closely-set leaves, and thick aërial roots. _Leaves_ distichous,
  ligulate-obtuse, with an unequal bilobed apex, stout and fleshy in
  texture, narrower, less drooping, and more densely set than in the
  type. _Scape_ axillary, the spike erect, bearing several (about six)
  flowers. _Flowers_ large, scentless, but remarkable for their
  beautiful colouring; _sepals_ roundish-obovate, the outer surface pale
  mauve, with darker mauve blotches, and a well developed white keel,
  the inner surface bronzy-brown, richly suffused with magenta; _petals_
  similar in form and size, wholly mauve-coloured exteriorly, and within
  of the same brownish magenta tint as the sepals; _lip_ auricled at the
  base, and produced into a short gibbous spur, the auricles white, with
  longitudinal mauve stripes, and two yellow blotches beneath the
  column, the interior portion of the richest magenta or lake-carmine,
  rhomboid, gibbous below the apex, and having a keel along the median
  line, and a conical callus at the base. _Column_ bent forward, white
  marked with purple.

  Vanda Parishii Marriottiana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardener’s
  Chronicle_, N.S., xiii., 743; xv., 726.


Of this handsome novelty Professor Reichenbach observes, that it is “a
very unexpected glorious surprise.” We are indebted to the courtesy of
H. J. Ross, Esq., Castagnolo, à Lastra, à Signa, Italy, for the
opportunity of figuring it, he having been kind enough to send us a
flower-spike, accompanied by a coloured sketch of the entire plant; we
have since exchanged a few plants of it with him, and from these several
materials our plate has been prepared.

_Vanda Parishii Marriottiana_ was first flowered by Sir W. H. S.
Marriott, Bart., in honour of whom it was named by Professor
Reichenbach. It is totally distinct from the type, which was figured in
the first volume of this work under Plate 15; and from which it will be
seen that while in that the sepals and petals are distinctly spotted,
they are in the variety before us of a bronzy brown, richly suffused
with magenta, the lip being altogether of a rich magenta, as in the
original form. This variety also differs from the type in having
scentless flowers; and, moreover, the growth of the plant is altogether
distinct, the leaves being more closely set on the short stem, as well
as narrower, and less drooping.

A curious fact is mentioned by Professor Reichenbach, in his original
description of this choice variety, namely, that, when fading, the
blossoms take on an olive-green tint with dark blotches, thus in some
degree reverting to the original colours.

_Vanda Parishii Marriottiana_ requires the same treatment as other
Vandas, and which has been already described under Plate 15.


Orchids in France.—The Chateau de Gouville is situated about twelve
miles from Rouen, in a most picturesque part of Normandy, and is the
country seat of the Comte de Germiny, a nobleman who is a most ardent
admirer of Orchids, and spares no pains to extend his very fine
collection, which is unequalled in France. The plant houses are situated
near to the Chateau, and are well built of iron and stone, having
circular roofs. On entering the first, which is filled with Caladiums
and Gloxinias, one is at once struck with the beauty of these flowers;
there is an endless variety of colour in the collection, and the size of
the flowers is remarkable, larger than any we have previously met with.
There is yet another house entirely filled with Gloxinias, which we had
to pass through, when a large house is reached, where Stove Plants with
ornamental foliage are planted out in the central portion, forming a
handsome _parterre_, through which a stream of water flows. Above this
natural undergrowth, the Vandas and Saccolabiums are suspended in
baskets, and as a collection, are the finest we have ever seen. Among
them we noted grand plants of _V. suavis_, of _V. tricolor_ and its
finest varieties, and of _V. cœrulea_, some of them being several feet
high, and in perfect health. We also noticed enormous masses of
Saccolabiums growing on suspended blocks of wood, as imported. The
plants evidently like this treatment, as they are rooting most profusely
among the undergrowth, and the effect is indeed most charming. On the
side stages are some grand plants of _Phalænopsis Schilleriana_, and of
_P. amabilis_, as well as numerous Saccolabiums, Aërides, &c. We noticed
a nice plant of the rare _Renanthera matutina_ in bloom; this is a
little gem, reminding one of a miniature _Renanthera coccinea_. At one
end of this fine house, growing on rustic stands, is a fine collection
of _Nepenthes_, forming together with the Orchids and other plants, as
viewed from the entrance, a truly imposing tropical scene.

Leaving this house, we came to a compartment where are some grand plants
of _Cœlogyne cristata_, with large masses of Pescatoreas, Bolleas,
Dendrobes, &c., in vigorous health. The Cattleya house contains some
wonderful examples of cultivation; we noticed particularly the
following:—_Cattleya exoniensis_ in bloom; two fine specimens of _C.
labiata pallida_ just past flower; _Lælia elegans alba_; _L. Perrinii_,
fine specimens in bloom; _Cattleya gigas_ just opening; and several
grand plants of _C. Trianæ_, showing quantities of flower, as well as of
_C. Mossiæ_, and _Lælia purpurata_.

In the Odontoglossum house are many fine plants of good varieties and of
rare species, all doing well, and presenting a picture of health. Here
we saw the true _Cypripedium Chantinii_ flowering profusely, and _C.
Spicerianum_ with several spikes. A small house adjoining this is
entirely devoted to _Phalænopsids_, the plants being suspended from the
roof in baskets over tanks of water, which method of cultivation seems
to agree well with them.

Altogether this is one of the finest collections of Orchids we have ever
had the good fortune to see, the East Indian kinds being especially well
cultivated. Great credit is due to M. Rondeau, the gardener, for the
manner in which he manages his plants, and as M. le Comte remarked to
us, for a gardener to grow his plants well, he must love them as he
loves his children.—H. Williams.

    [Illustration: PL. 62.
    MASDEVALLIA IGNEA.]




                           MASDEVALLIA IGNEA.
                              [Plate 62.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ slender, erect, tufted. _Leaves_ evergreen,
  coriaceous, six to eight inches long, the blade deep green,
  elliptic-oblong, blunt or notched at the apex, keeled behind, and
  narrowed below into a long slender channelled petiole, which is
  invested at the base by one or two membranous sheaths. _Scapes_
  slender, radical, ten to twelve inches long, invested at the base by
  sheaths, and having a sheathing bract beneath the blossom like those
  of the leaves. _Flowers_ remarkable in form, and brilliant in colour,
  paler on the outer surface; _dorsal sepal_ keeled, attenuate or
  subfiliform from a triangular base, bent down between the two lateral
  sepals so as to occupy the sinus, pale orange-red; _lateral sepals_
  connate below, elliptic-oblong, acute or apiculate, obliquely
  incurved, of a vivid cinnabar-red or glowing orange-scarlet, with
  three deeper red nerves; all united at the base into an incurved
  gibbous tube; _petals_ white, small, included, ligulate, acute,
  hastately auricled at the base in front; _lip_ white, small, enclosed,
  unguiculate, linguiform, subcordate at the base, crenulate in front.
  _Column_ erect, wingless.

  Masdevallia ignea, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  1871, 1482; _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5962; _Moore_,
  _Florist and Pomologist_, 1873, 169, with coloured plate; _André_,
  _Illustration Horticole_, t. 333; _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1872, 545,
  fig. 149; _Floral Magazine_, 2 ser., t. 15.


This is a most distinct species of _Masdevallia_, and one that should be
welcomed wherever richly coloured flowers are required, whether it be
for exhibition purposes, or as a distinct companion to the other fine
members of this genus. For the supply of cut flowers it will be found
invaluable, on account of its distinct glowing colour. There are a great
many varieties among the species of this genus—some of which are
infinitely superior to the one here figured, and the most select and
distinct of which we hope to be able to illustrate at a future time. We
find upon reference to those publications wherein the various
Masdevallias have been figured, that the several artists have done but
scant justice to their remarkable beauty, owing, we suppose, to the
frequent want of the pigments necessary to represent truthfully their
rich colouring and markings. We refer here more particularly to that
section of the genus represented by _M. Harryana_. Since the publication
of some of those plates, however, the chemist has had the good fortune
to discover the two lovely colours, magenta and mauve, by the aid of
which we are now enabled to pourtray more accurately than before these
wonderful productions of nature, the Orchids, in which the two colours
referred to largely preponderate.

_Masdevallia ignea_ is a dwarf growing evergreen species, producing its
flowers singly on erect growing peduncles during the summer months, and
lasting for some weeks in perfection. It was introduced from New Grenada
in 1870. Our plate was taken from a well-grown plant flowered in the
fine collection of C. Dorman, Esq., The Firs, Lawrie Park, Sydenham,
under the care of Mr. Coningsby.

The Masdevallias require a copious supply of water all the year round,
but more particularly when they are making young growths; abundance of
air and efficient shade, with a temperature varying from 45° to 50°, are
also necessary to their free development. The treatment is more fully
explained under Plate 24.

These plants are subject to the attacks both of the thrips and the green
fly, which should be vigorously pursued and destroyed. Should they
become numerous, the plants should be carefully fumigated, say two or
three times a week, until the pests are annihilated. When the smoke is
applied, care should be taken to have the plants dry, and to remove
those which are in bud or in flower. Propagation is effected by division
just before the plants begin to grow.


Edinburgh International Horticultural Exhibition, _September_,
1882.—There were many Orchids at this Show, which, we think, our readers
will be pleased to see noticed, especially as it was late in the season
for Orchids to be in bloom. There were many fine specimen plants shown
in the various classes. A. Paul, Esq., exhibited a fine plant of
_Cattleya Harrisonii_, with thirteen spikes of its delicate-coloured
blossoms; also the lovely and rare _Lælia Turnerii_, with its
rich-coloured flowers, eight on each spike; and a fine specimen of
_Saccolabium_, quite distinct in character, with a very large and long
spike of flowers; the same plant last year produced four spikes, each
nearly two feet in length, and is itself eighteen inches in height, and
two feet across; the showy _Odontoglossum grande_ was very finely shown,
also _Vanda suavis_. W. McDonald, Esq., of Perth, had some fine plants;
we noticed a well-cultivated _Cattleya crispa superba_, with fine spikes
of flowers; also, _Odontoglossum grande_, with seven spikes of bloom;
this is one of the most showy and best of Orchids at this time of the
year. The same grower also exhibited a good specimen of _O. Pescatorei_,
and the rare _Cattleya exoniensis_, which was in fine colour. From C.
Walker, Esq., of Brettagh Holt, came some fine plants of _Odontoglossum
grande_. The most extraordinary specimen was _Renanthera coccinea_,
which was exhibited by Mrs. Tait, Milrig, Galston; it stood five feet in
height, with four of its richly-coloured spikes of blossom, one of which
bore about one hundred expanded flowers; it was a most gorgeous sight,
especially as it bloomed in such a small state, for the plant, as a
rule, makes a long growth before it commences flowering. Dr. Paterson,
of the Bridge of Allan, exhibited a most charming variety of _Cattleya
Dowiana_; and J. Douglas, Esq., of Dalkeith, showed a fine form of
_Cattleya gigas_. Our limited space will not permit us to say more.—B.
S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 63.
    CŒLOGYNE PANDURATA.]




                          CŒLOGYNE PANDURATA.
                              [Plate 63.]
                          _Native of Borneo._


  Epiphytal, _Pseudobulbs_ large, somewhat compressed, oblong ovate,
  bearing about two leaves at the summit. _Leaves_ large,
  broadly-lanceolate, plaited, eighteen inches long, many-nerved.
  _Scape_ radical, produced with the young growth, supporting a
  pendulous raceme somewhat longer than the leaves. _Flowers_ numerous,
  rather distant, large, four inches across when fully expanded,
  fragrant, each one issuing from the axil of a brown cucullate
  deciduous bract as long as the pedicel; _sepals_ and _petals_
  linear-oblong, acute, pale green; _lip_ concave at the base,
  cordate-oblong, appearing to be panduriform from the inflection at the
  sides, retuse, setaceo-acuminate, the edges crisped, green marked with
  blackish veins and stains, the disk with three keels and two deep
  double-warted crests on each side, the crests converging towards the
  middle of the lip, where they are lost amongst a series of irregular
  rugged often two-lobed warts. _Column_ green, with the edges thin and
  rounded.

  Cœlogyne pandurata. _Lindley_, _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1853, 791;
  _Id._ _Folia Orchidacea_, art. Cœlogyne, No. 7; _Hooker_, _Botanical
  Magazine_, t. 5084; _Bateman_, _Second Century of Orchidaceous
  Plants_, t. 160; _Van Houtte_, _Flore des Serres_, t. 2139;
  _Reichenbach fil._, _Xenia Orchidacea_, t. 121; _Id._ _Walpers’
  Annales Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 224.


As a curiously beautiful plant this Orchid is perhaps unequalled. It is
very rarely met with in a flowering state in collections, which is the
more to be wondered at, as though the flowers are not bright in colour,
yet on account of the peculiar association of tints—light green and
black—and their large size, it makes a very attractive object. The
flowers are produced upon drooping spikes from the young growths during
the summer, and continue for some time in perfection.

_Cœlogyne pandurata_ is a native of Borneo, where, according to Mr. Low,
it is common on trees, in shady places overhanging water. It thrives
best in the temperature of the Cattleya house, and during the period of
growth requires a good supply of water. After the growth is complete,
less water must be given, until it begins again to show signs of
starting into fresh growth, when the supply should be gradually
augmented.

The specimen here figured was flowered in the fine collection of Baron
J. H. Schrœder, The Dell, Staines, under the care of Mr. Ballantyne, the
gardener, who seems to be very successful in the cultivation of this
interesting plant.

The root material in which we find it to succeed best, is a compost of
peat, with a little moss and charcoal added. It does well either in a
pot or in a basket, suspended from the roof, but should be well shaded
from the sun, as too much sunlight causes the leaves to become spotted
and look sickly, and this is very detrimental to the plants. It will be
found to be a very free-growing species, when it obtains the treatment
it requires.

The plant is propagated by separating the pseudobulbs just before they
start into growth.


Orchids in France.—The Chateau de Ferrières, the country seat of Baron
Alphonse de Rothschild, in the department of Seine et Marne, is situated
about 33 kilometres from Paris, and about two miles from the station
Ozouer la Ferrière, on the Ligne de Mulhouse. Orchid growers, when in
Paris, would do well to pay this wonderful place a visit, since it is
unequalled both for size and beauty by any other place in France. Here
Orchids are well cared for, Mr. Bergman, the gardener, being very
successful in their cultivation, admirably seconded as he is by his son,
who passed some years in this country, studying gardening in all its
branches.

Commencing with the Vanda house we were pleased to find these noble
plants so much at home, there being several remarkable specimens of _V.
suavis_, _V. tricolor_, and _V. tricolor insignis_, marvels of
cultivation. _Vanda cœrulea_ is doing well and flowering profusely. _V.
Lowei_ is represented by a plant of enormous dimensions, having four
strong growths, and is one of the finest plants we have ever seen. The
species of _Phalænopsis_ are also well grown here, in company with the
Vandas, and right well do they seem to like their company, since there
are some wonderful plants of nearly all the species, thriving well and
making strong flowering spikes. In the Cattleya house are some fine
healthy plants of all the best species and varieties thriving admirably.
Mr. Bergman gives his plants plenty of light, which causes them to look
somewhat yellow, but he gets his bulbs ripened off well, and flowers
them in greater profusion. Passing from here to the new Odontoglossum
house we find a grand collection of these favourite Orchids. These
plants are grown very largely here, as cut Orchids are in great request.

In another house are some other fine Vandas, associated with ornamental
Stove Plants. Doing well in the same house, near the door, are a
quantity of plants of _Vanda teres_, planted out in a compost of moss
and charcoal, which is kept together on the stage of the house by a
wirework edging. Here the plants are allowed to grow freely until they
touch the glass, when they are cut down and replanted. All the light
possible is given them, together with a copious supply of water, and the
plants flower luxuriantly every year. Mr. Bergman, Jun., informed us
that last year 651 flowers were cut from these plants. We recommend
cultivators to give this plant a trial in the way above described, as it
is one of the richest gems of the Orchid world. _Cœlogyne Massangeana_
was doing well; one plant, having ten spikes, was suspended from the
roof, and was an object never to be forgotten.

                                                            H. Williams.

    [Illustration: PL. 64.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM ROEZLII.]




                         ODONTOGLOSSUM ROEZLII.
                              [Plate 64.]
                         _Native of Colombia._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ narrowly ovate, two inches long, compressed,
  with acute margins. _Leaves_ elongately linear-lanceolate, acuminate,
  nearly or quite a foot in length, keeled behind, and there marked with
  nine nervose striæ, the colour a clear pale green. _Scapes_ short,
  slender, terete, three to six-flowered (according to Rchb.), erect,
  with subulate pale green bracts shorter than the pedicels, which pass
  gradually into the slender grooved ovary. _Flowers_ three to four
  inches across, flat, exceedingly chaste and effective; _sepals_
  obovate-oblong acute, sub-equal, snow-white; _petals_ similar to the
  lateral sepals in form, but rather broader, pure white, marked with a
  distinct transverse purplish-red band at their base; _lip_ large, two
  and a half inches across, broadly obcordate, or cuneately flabellate,
  obtusely bilobed, with a mucro in the sinus, sagittate or bearing a
  spur-like horn directed upwards and backwards on each side at the base
  of the short claw, and having three short slender keels on the disk in
  front of the horns, and a pair of short calli interposed; the disk has
  a largish yellow blotch streaked with red, while the rest of the
  surface is snow-white. _Column_ short, wingless.

  Odontoglossum Roezlii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  1873, 1302, fig. 269; _Id._ _Xenia Orchidacea_, t. 182, fig. 1;
  _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 6085; _Bateman_, _Monograph of
  Odontoglossum_, t. 30; _Floral Magazine_, ser. 2, t. 90.


This grand Odontoglot, which has been designated “a first-class beauty,”
and which comes near to _Odontoglossum vexillarium_, was introduced in
1873 by Mr. B. Roezl, the very successful traveller and Orchid hunter,
who has so well worked up the greater part of the Western hemisphere in
the search after these plants, and to whose zeal and energy Orchid
growers are so deeply indebted for the many rich gems he has introduced
to cultivation. The species was most properly named by Professor
Reichenbach after Mr. Roezl, and we are glad to be able to figure it, in
order to remind Orchid growers how much they owe to the unflinching
perseverance of one who has now retired from active life among his
favourites. The best compost in which to cultivate this plant, is a
mixture of peat and moss, with good drainage.

_Odontoglossum Roezlii_ is one of the few Odontoglots that require to be
grown in a warm temperature. The Cattleya house will be found to be the
best position for it, and if the plants are suspended either in pots or
in baskets from the roof of the house, where a copious supply of water
can be given to them, they will be found to thrive well. This species is
particularly liable to the attacks of the thrips, and great care should
be exercised in searching for and destroying them. We have found flowers
of sulphur mixed with water, and applied to the young growths with a
camel’s-hair pencil, very beneficial in preventing the attacks of this
insect, while the application does not at all injure the young and
tender parts. The thrips has a great aversion to sulphur—in fact will
not go near it.

The drawing from which our plate is prepared was taken from the select
collection of D. Tod, Esq., Eastwood Park, Thorliebank, near Glasgow,
who is not only forming a nice collection of Orchids, but who flowers
this species very freely, and cultivates it better than we have seen it
grown in any other collection. We have had these plants under our notice
for the past three years, and believe Mr. Tod’s gardener has hit upon
the right method of treatment, the plants being very strong and
vigorous, with clean healthy foliage. The specimens at Eastwood Park are
grown in a warm house, near the glass, with plenty of moisture during
the summer season, and even in winter they are kept moist at the roots.


Orchids at Bickley.—We are glad to see the East Indian Orchids well
represented in the new collection being got together by F. A. Philbrick,
Esq., Q.C., at Bickley. They are grown in a house where they are
associated with stove plants. Here are seen some fine examples of
_Vanda_, _Saccolabium guttatum_ in bloom, also a wonderful specimen of
_Aërides affine_, with many spikes just coming into flower. We,
moreover, noticed some fine plants of _Cypripedium_ in bloom in the same
house. The cool house is well filled with fine examples of
_Odontoglossum_ and _Masdevallia_, which are promising to make fine
plants. Many kinds of _Masdevallia_ were in bloom when we saw them,
amongst them an especially fine dark variety of _M. ignea_ in full
beauty, and some varieties of _M. Harryana_ were very bright in colour.
_Odontoglossum Alexandræ_ was well represented by several varieties in
bloom. A cool and airy house is set apart for _Dendrobiums_, and
alongside this is a house devoted entirely to _Phalænopsis_ containing a
fine lot of healthy plants, all hanging in baskets near the light, but
shaded from the sun, which bid fair to eclipse their predecessors in
this collection.—B. S. W.


Cattleya superba.—We have received a very fine spike of blossom of this
splendid _Cattleya_ from the choice collection of O. Schneider, Esq.,
Cromwell Grange, Fallowfield, near Manchester. The inflorescence was cut
from a remarkably well-grown specimen, and bore six flowers. We have
never seen better managed plants of this species than are to be found at
this place; they do great credit to Mr. Holmes.—B. S. W.


Cattleya virginalis.—A fine variety of this chaste Orchid comes to us
from R. P. Percival, Esq., Birkdale, Southport. The sepals and petals
are pure white, and the lip white, with an orange spot at the entrance
to the throat. This species is very strongly scented.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 65.
    COMPARETTIA MACROPLECTRON.]




                       COMPARETTIA MACROPLECTRON.
                              [Plate 65.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ small, oblong, truncate, compressed or
  flattish, with the angles rounded, of a pinkish colour, monophyllous
  or sometimes a second leaf sheathing the bulb. _Leaves_ oblong
  ligulate, acute, keeled, bright green, shining. _Peduncles_ slender,
  drooping, lateral, sheathed at the base by ovate-lanceolate bracts,
  and bearing a secund raceme of flowers having minute scale-like bracts
  at the base of their inch-long pedicels. _Flowers_ large, of a
  delicate rose colour, prettily spotted; _dorsal sepal_ ligulate acute,
  umbonate at the back near the base; _lateral sepals_ ligulate acute,
  fornicate, connate into a slender pointed spur two inches in length,
  all blush-white, thickly spotted with purple; _petals_ cuneate-ovate
  acute, purplish rose, covered with deep rosy purple dots; _lip_ with a
  pair of blunt-angled auricles at the base, and a linear keel-shaped
  claw, the anterior lobe subquadrate, an inch and a half broad,
  emarginate with an apiculus, of a pleasing delicate tint of soft
  magenta-rose, deeper near the claw, where it is marked by a few purple
  spots, the sides crenate or repand, the two included spurs of the lip
  elongate, and finely papulose, orange coloured in the inferior half.
  _Column_ free, erect, with a perpendicular ridge in the middle of the
  stigmatic hollow.

  Comparettia macroplectron, _Reichenbach fil. et Triana_, in
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., x., 524; _Id._ xi. 398.


The Comparettias form a small genus of very dwarf-growing Orchids, some
of the species of which are, not only very beautiful, but also free
blooming. That which we now illustrate is a most charming plant. The
original, from which the drawing was made, was sent to us by F. A.
Philbrick, Esq., Q.C., of Oldfield, Bickley, and was a well-grown
specimen, which did great credit to Mr. Heims, the gardener. Generally
these plants have not been well managed, but latterly they appear to
have been better looked after, and we have received, from Sir Trevor
Lawrence, Bart., M.P., and others, specimens of other desirable kinds,
which we hope to illustrate in due course. We are glad to find that our
collectors are turning their attention to the importation of the
Comparettias, as there are some lovely species among them. Moreover,
they require but little space to grow them in, and they are always
charming when in blossom.

_Comparettia macroplectron_ is an evergreen and very floriferous plant,
with small peculiarly-shaped pseudobulbs, and short bright green glossy
leaves. The flower-spikes are produced from the base of the pseudobulbs,
and bear five or sometimes more flowers in a drooping raceme. The sepals
and petals are rose colour, the former paler than the latter, and both
are spotted with a deeper tint of rose-purple; the lip is also of a
beautiful delicate rose colour, which becomes deeper and purple-spotted
near the base. The flowers are produced in July and August, and continue
in perfection for some time.

This plant will thrive either in a basket or pan suspended from the
roof, where it can receive a great amount of light, and in order to grow
it successfully this plan should be followed. The species, which are all
small growing subjects, are found on the branches of trees where they
obtain just sufficient shade to screen them from the burning sun, and
where they also get heavy dews at night, and sometimes a great amount of
rain. It is during this rainy period that they make their growth and
produce their flower spikes. Both the foliage and bulbs being small,
they require careful attention as regards moisture at the roots.

We find the most suitable material in which to grow them, is a little
fibrous peat and sphagnum moss with good drainage, so that the water may
pass away without becoming stagnant. Some portion of this material
should be changed each year, just as the plant begins to show signs of
making its growth.

The Comparettias will not submit to be divided or cut; and we find the
Cattleya house the most suitable structure to grow them in. They are
subject to the attacks of white scale, and if these are allowed to
accumulate, the plants will soon show signs of bad health, but if
sufficient care is bestowed to keep them clean they will well repay the
trouble which is taken, and afford great pleasure not only to those who
are fond of Orchids, but also to those who take an interest in watching
these floral treasures as they put out their new growths and beautiful
flowers.


Orchids at Brentham Park, Stirling.—A visit to this place, the residence
of R. Smith, Esq., is at all times a great treat, since it commands a
grand view of the country around, surrounded by the distant mountains.
Our chief source of attraction, of course, was the Orchids, of which
there is here the largest and richest collection in Scotland. There are
many fine plants of Cattleya, such as _C. exoniensis_, the best variety,
which, when in bloom, must present a most gorgeous sight. _C.
amethystoglossa_ is also a fine specimen, and is the same beautifully
spotted variety which was figured in Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous
Plants_. _Cœlogyne Massangeana_ is a wonderful example of good
cultivation, with its pendulous spikes overhanging the pot. So is
_Zygopetalum Gautieri_, with many spikes of its charming mauve-coloured
flowers; and _Odontoglossum Andersonianum_, with fine branching spikes,
which must be very beautiful when in bloom. Associated with this was a
very fine _O. Alexandræ_, quite one of the best spotted varieties we
have seen, which Mr. Smith kindly sent for our artist to copy.

There are many fine Odontoglots here, which are showing well for bloom.
Since our visit last year there has been a new house erected for the
Cattleyas, of which there is a good and well-grown collection. Mr. Smith
is always looking out for the best varieties that can be procured.—B. S.
W.

    [Illustration: PL. 66.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM CRISTATELLUM.]




                      ODONTOGLOSSUM CRISTATELLUM.
                              [Plate 66.]
               _Native of the United States of Columbia._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate, one and a half to two inches long,
  pale green. _Leaves_ one or two from each pseudobulb, ligulate-oblong,
  acute, narrowed to the base, keeled. _Peduncles_ radical, terminating
  in a showy raceme of flowers, and furnished below with lanceolate pale
  brown bracts, smaller triangular bracts being produced at the base of
  the pedicels. _Flowers_ two and a half inches across, attractive in
  colour and marking; _sepals_ and _petals_ subhastate, broadish
  oblong-ovate above, acuminate, yellow, with a few large rich
  chestnut-brown blotches; _lip_ short, narrow, the blade
  oblong-panduriform, apiculate, the margin much undulated and minutely
  denticulate, yellow at the base and chestnut-brown in front, bearing
  at the base of the disk subulate radiate calli, consisting of about
  six teeth on each side, and in front of these two rhomboid serrated
  lamellæ, all these parts yellowish, streaked (and the keels bordered)
  with chestnut-red. _Column_ trigonous, arcuate, with violet spots in
  front of its base, and chestnut-red wings.

  Odontoglossum cristatellum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S., x., 716; _Id._ xvii., 143.

  Odontoglossum Lehmanni, _F. C. Lehmann in litteris_—fide Reichenbach.


The _Odontoglossum cristatellum_ is described by Prof. Reichenbach as a
near relative of _O. cristatum_. It is, without doubt, a very rare
plant, one that has flowered in but few collections, and is supposed to
be a natural hybrid. It is not perhaps so showy as some other
Odontoglots, but still it is one that is quite worth cultivating. Our
sketch was taken from a well-grown plant in the collection of O.
Schneider, Esq., Cromwell Range, Fallowfield, Manchester. This
gentleman, who has an excellent collection of Orchids, has houses set
apart for the various kinds, and we may say that our visit there gave us
very great satisfaction, as we there saw many well-grown plants of
species that are usually found difficult to cultivate.

_Odontoglossum cristatellum_ is a compact evergreen plant, growing from
ten inches to a foot in height. It is furnished with light green foliage
and produces its flower-spikes at different periods of the year,
according to the time of the completion of its growth; moreover, it
lasts for several weeks in bloom. The plant requires to be grown in the
cool Odontoglossum house, with the same treatment as _O. Alexandræ_, as
regards soil, water, and temperature, fire-heat being always avoided if
possible in summer. The less fire-heat the plants receive the more
successful will be their growth, though, of course, in cold weather,
some little fire will be required to keep the house up to the correct
temperature, at the same time giving a little air, but avoiding cold
draughts.

The Odontoglots are among the most accommodating of Orchids, as they are
free-growing, and most of them free-blooming subjects. By having a stock
of plants, a succession of flowers may be kept up all the year round in
the case of such kinds as _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, _O. Pescatorei_,
and others. There are some amateurs who are not satisfied unless they
possess some thousands of plants of the two species just named, and they
argue correctly, that by obtaining so many they have the opportunity of
selecting the good kinds for permanent cultivation, and of doing away
with the bad ones, or else of using them for ordinary decorative
purposes. The good varieties take up no more room than the indifferent
ones, and both are valuable and beautiful in their respective
departments.


Orchids at The Kilns, Falkirk, N.B., the seat of John Gair, Esq.—A short
time since we paid a visit to this place, and we were well repaid for
our journey. We always maintain that there is something to be learnt in
every place, and we found it so here. Thus we often hear it remarked
that Orchids and stove plants cannot be grown together, but we found in
this collection that many stove plants were grown in the centre bed,
while Orchids were suspended from the roof, the side tables also being
full of Orchids. In this case the house was a large span-roofed one, and
contained many kinds of Orchids, coming from countries various and
diverse. The plants, consisting of many hundreds, were all grown
together, and there was not one in bad condition among them. We propose
to mention the different genera which have been cultivated in this house
for several successive years, since we have been fortunate enough to be
able to bear testimony to the progress they have made. On entering the
house one’s attention is at once arrested by some finely grown specimens
of _Bollea_, _Huntleya_, and _Batemannia_, all in luxuriant health. Next
came _Lælia purpurata_, _L. elegans_, _L. elegans prasiata_, and others,
all in the best possible condition, and flowering freely. There was also
standing on the same table a well-grown collection of _Cypripediums_,
consisting of all the choicest and best kinds, which were growing
splendidly. Mr. Fairbairn appears to use a great deal of water, more
than we do, for we were informed by him that he syringed them every day
in summer, and kept them moist in winter, though at that season he does
not syringe them so much. By the side of these were many fine plants of
_Dendrobiums_, and other good Orchids. At the end, and on the other side
of the house, there was a good collection of East Indian
Orchids—_Aërides_, _Saccolabiums_, _Angræcums_, _Vandas_, &c., all doing
well. Then came a fine lot of _Cattleyas_, such as _C. Trianæ_, _C.
Mendelii_, _C. gigas_, _C. Warnerii_, _C. Mossiæ_, and others, all in
excellent health. The centre table was furnished with many fine Orchids
mixed with foliage plants, and from the roof were suspended such genera
as _Phalænopsis_ and _Dendrobium_, making fine growths, and enjoying the
moisture from the stove plants below.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 67.
    THUNIA BENSONIÆ.]




                            THUNIA BENSONIÆ.
                              [Plate 67.]
                       _Native of India—Rangoon._


  Terrestrial. _Stems_ deciduous, terete, one and a half to two feet
  high, swelling into tuberous knobs at the base, the lower part clothed
  with suborbicular green reflexed leafy sheaths, which, as they advance
  upwards, gradually pass into the leaves. _Leaves_ sheathing,
  membranous, subdistichous, linear-lanceolate acuminate, glaucous
  beneath, six to eight or ten inches long. _Flowers_ large and very
  showy, terminal, growing in short nodding racemes of ten to fifteen
  together, each emerging from a pale green sheathing bract, which
  encloses it while in bud; _sepals_ and _petals_ linear-lanceolate,
  partially spreading, two to three inches long, of a light
  magenta-purple striately distributed, and paler towards the centre;
  _lip_ about three inches long, three-lobed, the lateral lobes short,
  obtuse, rolled round the column, toothed; middle lobe broadly oblong,
  flabellate, closely undulated and lobulate, of a very rich deep
  magenta-purple, the base produced into a short notched spur, the disk
  of a rich bronzy orange, bearing several ciliated keels. _Column_
  furnished with toothed wings at its apex.

  Thunia Bensoniæ, _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5694;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 298.

  Phaius Bensoniæ, _Hemsley_, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xviii.,
  565.


This is undoubtedly one of the most beautiful and free-flowering of the
Thunias. The colour of its gorgeous flowers is very uncommon in the
Orchid family, and is very charming. It is a plant that should find a
place in every collection, especially when seen in such a form as that
represented in our drawing, taken from a plant to which we alluded when
referring to the Orchids in bloom in the collection of W. Leach, Esq.,
Oakleigh, Fallowfield, Manchester—a collection very ably managed by Mr.
Swan. The Orchid houses at Oakleigh are well arranged, so that the
different temperatures required by plants coming from different
localities are readily obtainable, and the plants being grown near the
glass they have plenty of light. This is a great advantage to Orchids
generally, as by this means the growths get better ripened, and this
enables the plants to flower more freely, and to produce flowers of a
richer colour.

_Thunia Bensoniæ_ is a deciduous plant, losing its stems and foliage
after it has finished its growth. It attains to a height of from
eighteen inches to two feet, or sometimes more when the growths are
strong. We have seen blooming plants eighteen inches in height. The
flowers proceed from the top of the new stems at the time they are
making their growth, and they continue blooming for some time. The
sepals and petals are of a pale magenta colour, while the lip is much
darker, of a rich purple, with a bronzy orange blotch. Sometimes the
spikes produce as many as fifteen of these beautiful blossoms, which was
the case with the plant from which our illustration was taken; they do
not, however, all open at the same time, but follow in succession until
the spike is exhausted.

The Thunias are all deciduous plants, and require different treatment
from that given to evergreen Orchids. After their growth is completed,
they require a season of rest, which must be given by putting them away
in a dry part of the house. It is after they have finished their growth
that their foliage begins to decay, and subsequently falls away. When in
this dormant state they require just sufficient moisture to keep them
from shrivelling. This treatment must be continued until March, when
they will begin to show signs of growth; at that time they must be
shaken out of the pots, the decayed roots cut off, and the plants
re-potted, setting the bulbs one inch below the pot rim, and just into
the soil, so that the young growths are not covered. We find rough
fibrous peat and sphagnum moss suitable material for growing them in,
and good drainage is indispensable, as the plants require a considerable
amount of water when they are in a vigorous state, as their growth and
flowering are both completed in about six months. Water should be
sparingly applied until the stems are a few inches high, just sufficient
being given to keep them moist until the roots are beginning to fill the
pots; then a little manure water will benefit them, making them grow
stronger and flower more freely.

They are of easy cultivation, and do not require deep pots, indeed pans
from three to four inches deep will suit them, and they may be suspended
from the roof, where they can get plenty of light. They will, however,
thrive on tables if they receive all the light possible, and are shaded
from the sun. We have also grown them on blocks, but grown in this way
they require more frequent and copious supplies of water.

Thunias are readily propagated by taking off some of the old bulbs when
the young growths are about ten inches in height, but only part of the
old bulb should be removed or cut off, dividing it in pieces of about
six inches in length, and placing these in sand. The growths proceed
from the joints, and these make plants during the season; they must be
potted in due course, and often bloom during their second year.


Odontoglossum coronarium miniatum.—We received in August last from the
garden of Lord Rendlesham, M.P., Woodbridge, Suffolk, a fine
inflorescence of this rare Odontoglot, which is seldom seen in flower.
The spike bore twelve of its gay-looking yellow and brown flowers. In
growth it resembles _O. coronarium_, only it is much smaller; the
flowers also resemble those of that species, but they are, like the
growth, considerably smaller. Many growers believe this to be the same
as _O. brevifolium_, but the two plants are quite distinct, both in
flower and in growth, besides which _O. brevifolium_ is much the freer
flowerer of the two.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 68.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM PESCATOREI VEITCHIANUM.]




                 ODONTOGLOSSUM PESCATOREI VEITCHIANUM.
                              [Plate 68.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ roundish or bluntly ovate, slightly-ribbed,
  about an inch high, diphyllous. _Leaves_ strap-shaped or
  lorate-oblong, narrowed both to the base and apex, six inches long, of
  a deep green colour. _Peduncle_ springing from the base of the
  pseudobulb, a foot in height in the only specimen which has yet
  flowered, bearing a raceme of about half-a-dozen flowers rather
  closely placed back to back at its upper end, with minute bracts at
  the base of their pedicels. _Flowers_ two and a half inches across,
  the most beautiful which have yet appeared amongst the forms of this
  species; _sepals_ oblong acute, over an inch in length, pure white,
  marked with two or three transverse curved bars of the richest
  crimson-purple or wine-purple; _petals_ broadly ovate apiculate,
  slightly wavy, white, more irregularly transversely blotched than the
  sepals with the same rich purple colour; _lip_ undulated at the edge,
  heart-shaped at the base, contracted in the middle, dilated and
  cuspidate at the apex, white with a few purple spots round the basal
  lobes, the disk including the contracted parts bright yellow,
  furnished on each side with a flat lacerated appendage streaked with
  red, having a pair of parallel plates between, and bearing a few deep
  red spots. _Column_ with short lacerated wings.

  Odontoglossum Pescatorei Veitchianum, _Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xvii., 588; _Moore_, _Florist and
  Pomologist_, 1882, 76.


There is no doubt that _Odontoglossum Pescatorei_ is one of the most
beautiful species of this extensive and exceedingly beautiful genus of
Orchids. Its flowers borne in fine branching panicles, are most pleasing
in their form and character, and of a chaste and lovely whiteness,
besides which the plant is one of the most free-growing of the
Odontoglots. There are in our collections many forms of this species,
and most of them are well worthy of cultivation, the flowers being for
the most part good in shape and of a pure white, which is a colour
generally sought after by those who have a keen taste for floral beauty.
A hundred of these gems can be cultivated in a small space, and they can
now be purchased at so cheap a rate that they are within reach of
everyone who can afford to erect a small house; and being really cool
Orchids they require but little fire heat at any time, and none whatever
during the summer months.

The variety, _Veitchianum_, which we now introduce to our readers, bears
most charmingly and wonderfully spotted flowers, as will be seen from
the accompanying plate. It bloomed last spring for the first time in the
fine collection of Orchids belonging to Messrs. J. Veitch & Sons, of
Chelsea, who imported it with many thousands of plants referrible to
this specific type, and amongst them many hundreds of good kinds have
been flowered, but none approaching in richness of hue or in beauty of
marking, to the one now before us. We hope the Messrs. Veitch may be
fortunate enough to bloom more of the same, as cultivators will be glad
to procure it for their collections. The plant in question has, we
understand, now passed out of their hands into Baron J. H. Schroeder’s
collection at Staines.

_Odontoglossum Pescatorei Veitchianum_ has the same habit of growth as
the type. The flowers on the specimen which bloomed last year, and was
certificated both by the Royal Horticultural and Royal Botanic
Societies, formed a close raceme, and were large and showy, the sepals
and petals being white, heavily transversely blotched at the base with a
lovely shade of crimson-purple, the lip being also white, and spotted
around the base with the same colour, while the bright yellow disk was
striately marked with crimson. This specimen bore several flowers on the
spike, and we have no doubt that as the plant increases in strength the
spikes will branch into panicles, as those of most of the plants of _O.
Pescatorei_ are branching in habit. They are graceful in appearance, and
of long duration, which renders them most useful for decorative
purposes, the more so as even when cut and placed in water they keep
fresh for a long time. The treatment these plants require is the same as
that of _O. Alexandræ_ and the other cool-house Orchids.

The greatest pest in the cultivation of cool Orchids, and one which is
consequently a great annoyance to cultivators, is a small black slug
that takes up its home in the moss and about the plants, and which often
eats many of the young flower spikes when they first appear. These
should be sought after night and morning as it is at these periods they
do their mischief. They seem to enjoy the temperature of the cool Orchid
house. The method we adopt for catching them is to look the moss
carefully over at once, when the spikes first appear, and be sure there
are no slugs allowed to remain among it; then we place a wire round the
pot, and suspend it from the roof, and in this manner we secure the
flower spikes. This is done when they are young, which is the favourite
time for these marauders to attack them. The plants are well worth this
trouble, as after watching them for a length of time it is most annoying
to find the flowers destroyed.


Odontoglossum Alexandræ.—We have received from H. J. Buchan, Esq.,
Wilton House, Southampton, a grand spike of a fine variety of this most
variable Orchid. The flowers are large, and of fine form and substance;
the sepals and petals are pure white, beautifully serrated; the lip is
broad and distinctly coloured on the upper part. This is one of the best
forms of _O. Alexandræ_ we have met with. Mr. Buchan has a good
collection of cool Orchids, and has been growing them for many years.—B.
S. W.


Odontoglossum Jenningsianum.—R. Smith, Esq., Brentham Park, Stirling,
has sent us a splendid inflorescence of this novelty. The flowers are
produced in a panicle, which is much branched, and bears numerous
blossoms. This species somewhat resembles a spotted form of _O.
Alexandræ_ in the markings of the flowers, but the form is more like
that of _O. Andersonianum_.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 69.
    CATTLEYA ACLANDIÆ.]




                           CATTLEYA ACLANDIÆ.
                              [Plate 69.]
                           _Native of Bahia._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) clavate, slightly furrowed, jointed,
  four to five inches long, sheathed at the joints with membranaceous
  spathes. _Leaves_ terminal, two in number, elliptic, obtuse, thick and
  fleshy in texture, dark green. _Scape_ terminal, bearing about two
  flowers and issuing from between the leaves. _Flowers_ large, about
  three inches across, and strikingly beautiful from the boldly
  contrasted colours; _sepals_ and _petals_ nearly equal, somewhat
  fleshy, obovate-lanceolate, yellowish green heavily and transversely
  blotched and spotted with rich dark chocolate-purple, the markings
  more distinctly coloured on the inner surface, but apparent though
  less distinct on the back or exterior surface; _lip_ large, fully two
  inches long, flat, panduriform, three-lobed, the lateral lobes pale
  rose marked with transverse veins, small and not enclosing the column,
  the front lobe one and a half inch across, broadly kidney-shaped,
  emarginate, of a bright magenta colour, the disk marked by a yellow
  line. _Column_ dark magenta, parallel with the lip, obovate, with two
  wing-like margins.

  Cattleya Aclandiæ, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1840, t. 48;
  _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_ ix, 1; _Flore des Serres_, t. 674;
  _Illustration Horticole_, t. 565; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t.
  5039; _Bateman_, _Second Century of Orchidaceous Plants_, t. 119;
  _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 114.


The _Cattleya Aclandiæ_ though a small-growing epiphyte, is one of the
most beautiful of the Cattleyas, notwithstanding that there are several
others which are of dwarf habit and produce richly coloured flowers. The
specimen we now figure is growing in the fine collection of Baron J. H.
Schröder, The Dell, Staines, to whom we are indebted for the opportunity
of having our drawing made. It is a highly-coloured and finely marked
form, quite as good as any we remember to have seen. This species does
not, however, vary so much as many other kinds.

_Cattleya Aclandiæ_ is an evergreen species of dwarf stature, growing
about six inches in height, and blooming at different times of the year,
previous to the completion of its new growths. It generally produces two
or three flowers on a spike; the sepals and petals are greenish yellow,
heavily blotched with chocolate-purple, while the lip is a bright
magenta, distinctly veined, which gives it an unique appearance. When
vigorous the plants frequently make a second growth, which also produces
flowers, these lasting in perfection for several weeks.

We have found these plants do best grown in pans or baskets, in a
compost of good fibrous peat and lumpy charcoal, and good drainage must
be provided to ensure success. We have also seen them well cultivated on
blocks of wood, but as they then require more attention as regards
watering than when in pans or baskets, we prefer them grown in the
latter way. An abundance of moisture should be provided for them during
the growing season, when the plants will be throwing out their new
roots. At this period close attention should be given in order to
prevent the injuries that may occur from the attacks of insects on the
young and tender roots, since these are frequently produced above the
soil; even if the plants recover from such a check they are apt to get
into a sickly condition, or to shrivel and dwindle away. _Cattleya
Aclandiæ_ is not one of the easiest of Orchids to cultivate, and for
this reason it requires extra attention to keep it in good condition. We
have, however, seen many fine plants of this beautiful species where it
has had the treatment suitable to it. We have found the Cattleya house
to afford the best temperature in which to grow it. A position as near
the glass as possible, with not too much shade, will be found to suit it
best; though care should always be taken to prevent the burning sun from
injuring the leaves, and to keep the bulbs in a plump state, for, if
allowed to shrivel or get into bad condition, the plants might as well
be thrown away, since they seldom recover. During the resting season,
therefore, sufficient water should be given to keep the bulbs from
shrinking.

Always bear in mind that cleanliness is one of the great secrets of
successful Orchid-growing, and that this little gem, if allowed to
become the prey of insects or to get dirty, will invariably fall into a
bad state of health from which it will rarely emerge. These pests may be
kept under if taken in time. Both thrips and scale will sometimes attack
the young growth, but they should be thoroughly routed out and
destroyed.


Oncidium Phalænopsis.—This lovely Orchid comes to us from E. Salt, Esq.,
of Ferniehurst, Shipley, near Leeds. It is now extremely rare, and is
seldom seen in collections. Mr. Salt informs us that this same plant,
last year, before it was divided, produced one spike with six flowers.
It is a glorious Orchid, allied to _O. nubigenum_ and _O. cucullatum_;
the flowers are, however, much larger than in either of these, and more
beautifully coloured. The sepals and petals are cream coloured, barred,
and spotted with purple; the lip is large, reniform, creamy white,
spotted about the base with violet-crimson, the crest being golden
yellow, and forming a striking contrast with the violet spotting which
surrounds it. The species is a native of Peru.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 70.
    CYPRIPEDIUM FAIRRIEANUM.]




                        CYPRIPEDIUM FAIRRIEANUM.
                              [Plate 70.]
                           _Native of Assam._


  Epiphytal, Acaulescent. _Leaves_ green, radical, leathery in texture,
  distichous, loriform, obliquely apiculate, the base carinate and
  equitant. _Scapes_ solitary in the axils, longer than the leaves,
  green, pilose, terminating in a short sheathing woolly bract from
  which the blossom emerges. _Flowers_ medium-sized, elegantly venose;
  _dorsal sepal_ large, oblong-cordiform, ciliated, concave, the apex
  recurved, blunt, greenish white flushed with carmine and beautifully
  veined with bright crimson-purple; _lateral connate sepals_ united
  into one small ovate obtuse sepal, which is whitish with streaks of
  green and crimson-purple; _petals_ oblong-lanceolate, deflexed and
  recurved “like the horn of a buffalo”, hairy at the base, white
  flushed with green, and having longitudinal stripes and a marginal
  band of crimson-purple, the edge being undulated and ciliated; _lip_
  prominent, brownish-green with faint purple reticulations. _Staminode_
  orbicular-lunate, greenish white tinted with purple, downy, with a
  downy proboscis between the horns of the crescent.

  Cypripedium Fairrieanum, _Lindley_, _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1857, 740;
  _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5024; _Van Houtte_, _Flore des
  Serres_, t. 1244; _Bateman_, _Second Century of Orchidaceous plants_,
  t. 140; _Reichenbach fil._, _Xenia Orchidacea_, t. 133; _Williams_,
  _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed. 153.


The Cypripediums form a very large genus of Orchids, which is also one
of the most useful for decorating our Orchid-houses or plant stoves, as
well as for exhibition purposes. Nearly all the species continue long in
flower and are of easy cultivation. The plant before us was first
flowered by A. Fairrie, Esq., of Aigburth, Liverpool, in 1857, and was
exhibited in London by him and named by Dr. Lindley in his honour. Since
that time it has become exceedingly rare, and is now to be met with in
but very few collections. As far as we are aware it has only been once
imported, a circumstance much to be regretted, as it is one of the most
distinct and lovely of the whole family. Our drawing was made by M. P.
Stroobant from a well-grown plant in the fine collection of Dr.
Baddaert, of Ghent, Belgium, who has one of the best collections of
Orchids in that country.

_Cypripedium Fairrieanum_ is an evergreen dwarf-growing species, with
light green leaves about three inches long. The flowers are produced
singly on upright stalks. It blooms during the autumn months and
continues in perfection for some considerable time.

This _Cypripedium_ is not so free in its growth as many others, although
we have seen it very fine in years gone by, and we are of opinion that
if imported plants could only be obtained, cultivators would be able to
succeed with it as well as with any other. There is no doubt that on
account of the plant being so rare, those who fortunately possess it are
too anxious to increase it, and too frequently cut the plants into small
pieces, which get into a bad condition and ultimately die. We have found
the East India house to afford the best temperature in which to
cultivate it, though we have grown it equally well at the warmest end of
a Cattleya house. The material used was fibrous peat and charcoal. The
pots should be filled three parts full of broken potsherds, a layer of
sphagnum moss being placed on the top of the drainage material; and in
potting the plant requires to be kept well elevated above the rim of the
pot, so that the roots may not become sodden. Not having the thick
fleshy pseudobulbs which some Orchids possess to support them, these
plants require more attention as regards the application of moisture to
the roots. Water should be given judiciously even when the plants are in
vigorous growth, as, if too much is applied, the potting material
becomes soddened and the plants get sickly. This species does not root
so freely as many of the stronger growing Lady’s Slippers and should be
grown in a position where plenty of light is obtainable.


Cattleya aurea.—R. P. Percival, Esq., of Southport, has kindly sent us a
glorious inflorescence of this splendid novelty, with four fully
expanded flowers. This species resembles _C. gigas_ in its growth, while
the flowers are somewhat akin to those of _C. Dowiana_, but the markings
on the lip are much brighter, and the golden yellow is much more
prevalent than in _C. Dowiana_; the front part of the lip is bright
magenta, while the sepals and petals are not partly rose coloured as in
_C. Dowiana_, but are entirely nankin-yellow. Baron Schröder, of
Staines, has also sent us a spike of this great beauty, but the variety
differs a little from the preceding.—H. W.


Cypripedium Parishii.—A. Paul, Esq., of Edinburgh, sends us a fine spike
of this curious Orchid, bearing six flowers. He informs us that the
plant produced four spikes of six blooms each. When flowered in this
way, it makes a fine object during the dull time of the year. It
requires the same treatment as other Cypripediums, and delights in a
good supply of moisture during the growing season.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 71.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM MADRENSE.]




                        ODONTOGLOSSUM MADRENSE.
                              [Plate 71.]
                _Native of the Sierra Madre of Mexico._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ligulate or narrowly-oblong, ancipital, three
  inches or more in length, pale green. _Leaves_ lorate or
  linear-lanceolate acute, nervose, keeled, usually two but sometimes
  one only from the apex of each pseudobulb, sometimes with a leaf
  sheathing the base. _Scapes_ lateral, twelve to eighteen inches long,
  bearing an inclined raceme of from six to eight flowers from the axils
  of brown membranaceous triangular acuminate bracts. _Flowers_
  fragrant, white blotched with reddish purple, three and a half to four
  inches in their vertical diameter, and somewhat less transversely;
  _sepals_ lanceolate, acuminate, keeled behind, about two inches long,
  white, with on oblong bilobed reddish purple blotch at the base;
  _petals_ broader, oblong, apiculate, white, with a bilobed purple
  blotch twice as long as that of the sepals and more distinctly
  separate; _lip_ smaller than the sepals and petals, recurved, with a
  short hollow claw, which bears two small retrorse lateral lobes,
  having between them and in front two collateral pairs of retuse
  bipapulose calli; the front lobe triangular or trowel-shaped,
  cuspidate, with crispy margins, white with the disk and calli
  orange-yellow. _Column_ short, greenish, wingless, hairy at the base.

  Odontoglossum madrense, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., ii. 804; viii, 102.

  Odontoglossum maxillare, _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_, t.
  6144—fide Reichenbach; not of _Lindley_.


Our present subject, _Odontoglossum madrense_, is not only pretty but
distinct, and very different in its growth, as well as in its flowers,
from most of the Odontoglots, as will be seen by the accompanying
figure, taken from the best grown specimen of the kind we have yet met
with, which is in the select collection belonging to R. Vanner, Esq., of
Camden Wood, Chislehurst, who certainly succeeds admirably in the
cultivation of this plant. The subject from which our illustration was
prepared, has flowered for two years in succession in the same grand
way, and we have no doubt that as the plant gets more fully established
it will produce more and more flowers on the spike. It is a very
free-growing plant, but we find that it does best in a warmer
temperature than that in which most Odontoglots thrive. The temperature
of the Cattleya house seems to suit it best, and it should be suspended
from the roof, and grown in a shallow pan in a compost of peat and
sphagnum moss. It requires a liberal supply of water during the growing
season, and should not be kept too dry when at rest, sufficient water
being given to keep the soil moist, and the bulbs plump. We have also
grown this plant successfully in the warm end of the Odontoglossum
house.

_Odontoglossum madrense_ is an evergreen plant, with upright pseudobulbs
of a light green colour. The leaves are about six inches long. The
flowers are produced on upright spikes which are produced from the sides
of the bulbs after the plant has completed its growth; the sepals and
petals are white with a large purplish brown blotch at the base of each;
the lip is orange at the base, white in front. The plant blooms during
the autumn months, and lasts for several weeks in perfection.

This is a plant that every Orchid-grower should possess, as it can be
bought at a reasonable price, and does not take up much room.
Propagation is effected by division, leaving two or three bulbs with the
leading growth to each divided piece. We find the best time to perform
this operation is just as the plant begins to start into growth. After
division the young plants should be potted and kept in a shady place
until they begin to grow, when more light should be given to them.


Mr. Lee’s Orchids.—The collection of Orchids at Downside, Leatherhead,
is fast becoming the most important in this country. East India Orchids
are special favourites with Mr. Lee, and this section of the family is
well represented. In the Phalænopsis house are to be found several grand
plants; we particularly noticed some well-grown specimens of
_Phalænopsis Schilleriana_; one plant of _P. amabilis_ was the largest
we have ever seen in cultivation, having many growths, and showing
several flower spikes; _P. Stuartiana_ was well represented, and seems
quite at home here; _P. intermedia_, with its varieties _Portei_ and
_Brymeriana_ were also in good form; as well as _P. violacea_, which was
in flower. Mr. Lee is not content with having a few plants of this
lovely class of Orchids, but possesses them by the hundred, so fond is
he of them. The Vanda house also contains some marvellous examples of
cultivation, _Vanda tricolor Warneri_ being well in bloom, also other
varieties of the same species, together with _V. lamellata Boxallii_,
&c. In the same house were some well grown plants of _Cattleya
Walkeriana_, in flower, suspended from the roof. Amongst the Cattleyas
was a fine variety of _Cattleya labiata_ in flower, the picture of
health. The different kinds of _Aërides_ and _Saccolabium_ were looking
equally well. In the Lycaste house, _Lycaste Skinneri amabile_, and _L.
Skinneri alba_ were in flower, also a fine lot of _Cattleya marginata_,
and of _Lælia præstans_, and _L. Dayana_; indeed we had never before
seen such a grand display of those little gems. In the cool houses the
different sorts of _Odontoglossum_ and _Masdevallia_ were represented by
some magnificent plants, some of which were in flower. Mr. Lee is still
building Orchid houses with a view to giving his plants more room. One
house in particular took our fancy, but of this we hope to furnish some
particulars at another time.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 72.
    MILTONIA REGNELLI PURPUREA.]




                      MILTONIA REGNELLI PURPUREA.
                              [Plate 72.]
                          _Native of Brazil._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate, obtuse, compressed, diphyllous.
  _Leaves_ lorate, acute, narrowed to the base, pale green, about a foot
  long. _Scapes_ bearing three or four large showy flowers, each with a
  small bract at the base of its pedicel. _Flowers_ showy, larger than
  in the type, being nearly three inches across; _sepals_ lanceolate,
  about an inch and one-fourth in length, of a delicate shade of rosy
  pink, paler almost white at the edges, and with a darker median line;
  _petals_ oblong, somewhat broader than the sepals and similar in
  colour; _lip_ flat, subpandurate, broad, one and a half inch across,
  emarginate at the apex, cuneate at the base, of an intense
  magenta-crimson, marked with indistinct reticulations of deeper
  crimson; the disk white, and furnished with three small elevated
  crests, of which the middle one is shorter. _Column_ deep crimson at
  the base, whitish at the apex.

  Miltonia Regnelli purpurea, _Hort. Veitch_; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, 4 ed., 209; 5 ed., 224; _Floral Magazine_, t. 490.


The Miltonias form a small genus allied to _Odontoglossum_ and
containing some beautiful species and varieties, most of which have been
inmates of our stoves and Orchid houses for many years. We remember some
of them as long as we have had the management of Orchids, which is now
for forty years, but even before that time there were large specimens
cultivated in some old-established gardens, such as those at Bothwell
Castle, where may now be found many fine plants of _M. spectabilis_ and
its variety, _Moreliana_, which have been grown by Mr. Turnbull, the
gardener, for more than forty years. _M. Clowesii_ and _M. candida_ have
been in cultivation for quite as long a period. We mention these facts
to show to the present generation of Orchid-growers that they should not
complain as they are apt to do, that these plants are difficult to
cultivate. This is not the case, in witness whereof these grand old
plants, which have been grown, as above stated, for so many years,
without much care having been bestowed upon them, may be cited. In the
collection above referred to, for example, they do not profess to
cultivate Orchids specially, but grow them in the ordinary plant stoves.
Surely the cultivators of the present day should have no difficulty in
attaining the same degree of success. We have seen _M. spectabilis_ as
much as three feet across, one mass of bloom, a sight never to be
forgotten. We do hope that Miltonias will be more grown than they are at
present, as they come into flower at a time when comparatively few
Orchids are in bloom, and keep on flowering during the autumn months.
They will be found useful for cutting purposes, as well as for our
autumn exhibitions. What, for example, could be more lovely than the
plant of _M. spectabilis_, shown by A. Paul, Esq., at the Edinburgh
Exhibition, in September of the present year?

The variety we now illustrate is a most beautiful one, and differs
considerably from the type. We are indebted to the kindness of Mr. B.
Findlay, of the Royal Botanical Gardens, Manchester, for the opportunity
of figuring this gem, which was imported by him. Mr. Findley is a great
lover of Orchids, and has a nicely grown collection of them, amongst
which flowering specimens may be seen at all times of the year. This,
_Miltonia Regnelli purpurea_, is much richer in its colouring than the
original species. It is evergreen, with light green pseudobulbs and
foliage, which, together, reach to about ten inches or a foot in height.
It produces its flower spikes from the sides of the pseudobulbs after
they have completed their growth, which is during August or September.
The sepals and petals are delicate rose colour, margined with white; the
lip intense crimson-purple, with white crests.

This plant, we repeat, is of easy cultivation and blooms very freely,
when grown in a mixture of rough fibrous peat and sphagnum moss, with
good drainage. Our experience points to the coolest end of the East
India house as the best position in which to grow it; but we have also
found it to do well in the Cattleya house. It is necessary to bear in
mind that the plant must be shaded from the burning sun, for it has thin
leaves which are easily affected by the sun’s rays; all the light
possible should however be given. It will do well either in a pot or
basket, and should not receive too much moisture at the roots, as
Miltonias frequently suffer if too much water is given them. The soil
must be kept freely moistened during the growing season, the supply of
water being decreased when the season of rest approaches.


Odontoglossum grande.—C. Walker, Esq., Brettargh Holt, Westmoreland,
sends us a grand spike of a fine variety of this, the king of
Odontoglots. The spike bore six of its enormous flowers, and was much
the finest we remember to have seen. Our artist has made a sketch of
this spike, and we hope to publish it at some future time—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 73.
    VANDA HOOKERIANA.]




                           VANDA HOOKERIANA.
                              [Plate 73.]
                          _Native of Borneo._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ elongate, rigid, terete, pale green, producing
  aërial roots from the joints, resembling in habit and character those
  of its near ally, _Vanda teres_. _Leaves_ erect, terete, tapered to a
  subulate mucronate point, channelled on the upper side, two and a half
  to three inches long, of a pale green colour. _Peduncles_ from near
  the top of the stem, opposite, and longer than the leaves, erect,
  bearing a two to five-flowered raceme (two-flowered in the examples
  bloomed in this country). _Flowers_ large, two and a half inches in
  diameter, and extremely beautiful, white, heavily striped and venosely
  dotted with deep rich magenta; _dorsal sepal_ obovate, cuneate, wavy,
  projected forwards, white, tinted with rose; the _lateral sepals_
  similar in form, but larger, apiculate, white; _petals_ spathulate
  oblong, obtuse, undulately-crisped, standing right and left above the
  column and lip, white, spotted with magenta; _lip_ with a pair of
  large triangular entire auricles standing erect, one on each side the
  column, of a deep purple colour, mottled with a paler hue, the front
  portion expanding from a cuneate base into a very broad transverse
  trifid limb, two inches broad, which is concave, the lower edge being
  projected forwards, the lateral lobes oblong obtuse, the central one
  shorter, bluntly ovate, crenate, undulate, white, the disk marked
  longitudinally with bold rich magenta-purple lines, from which diverge
  in the direction of the lateral lobes several parallel stripes of a
  similar colour, the front part of these lobes, as well as the front
  lobe itself, marked with dots of rich magenta-purple ranged in lines.
  _Spur_ small, acute, with two blunt calli in front of its mouth.
  _Column_ hairy below, white, tipped with purple.

  Vanda Hookeriana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Bonplandia_, iv., 324; _Id._
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xviii., 488. _Moore_, _Florist and
  Pomologist_, 1882, 155.


This lovely plant, which was unanimously awarded a First Class
Certificate by the Floral Committee of the Royal Horticultural Society,
when shown for the first time in this country in September last, appears
to have been originally discovered by Lobb, at Labuan, being represented
by No. 347 of his Collection; and from Lobb’s specimen in the Hookerian
Herbarium, it was named by Professor Reichenbach, in compliment to Sir
William Jackson Hooker, and published amongst other Orchid notes and
descriptions in the volume of the _Bonplandia_ issued in 1856; so that,
despite some well-merited laudatory remarks, such as “_planta
admirabilis inexspectatissima_,” and “_plantam insignem spectabilem_,”
it has been long in finding its way to our Orchid collections, which it
appears to have done in the summer of 1873, according to Reichenbach,
who adds, “I believe all went direct to Sir N. de Rothschild, Bart., and
the plants one afterwards saw at other places were all presents from
Tring Park. Now, after nearly ten years, Mr. Hill, Sir N. de
Rothschild’s orchid grower, has succeeded in flowering the plant.” It
was also flowered about the same time by Mr. Ebbage, gardener to J. S.
Bockett, Esq., Stamford Hill, from whose plant our plate was prepared.
Our impression is, though we have not had an opportunity of making the
comparison, that Sir N. de Rothschild’s flowers were appreciably larger
than those here delineated.

_Vanda Hookeriana_ is a very distinct looking plant, It has terete
foliage, resembling that of a slender form of the _Vanda teres_, but
having the tips of the leaves more acute. The flowers are produced on
short spikes, which are thrown out from the stem. As far as we have
seen, only two flowers have been produced on a single spike, but since
as many as five flowers have been counted on the imported spikes, we
have no doubt that with judicious attention and cultivation it may
produce more. The fact that it does so in the wild state speaks well for
its free-flowering qualities. The flowers of this species are white,
richly spotted with rosy purple, and the lip is longitudinally and
transversely marked with lines of the same colour.

_Vanda Hookeriana_ is a slender tall-growing plant, requiring an
abundant supply of moisture during the growing season, after which it
should be gradually dried off to predispose it to flower. A raft or
block of wood will be found the best contrivance to grow it upon; this
can either he plunged in a pot or hung up to the roof of the house, in a
position where the plant may obtain plenty of sunlight and air. A little
sphagnum moss about the roots will be found beneficial, since it will
aid in keeping the young succulent points moist. While growing it should
be placed in the East India house, and plenty of water should be given
it. After flowering, a slight rest should be allowed, and after that
water may again be given as soon as it shows signs of starting into
growth.

This plant is subject to the attacks of scale and thrips, which should
be disposed of by sponging and fumigation. Propagation is effected by
cutting down the plants, care being taken to see that the shoots are
furnished with roots. These cut portions should be put in pots, or
placed on blocks or rafts, and kept in a shady position until
established. After this operation has been performed, the old stem will
throw out side shoots, which can again be detached when rooted should
more stock be required.

    [Illustration: PL. 74.
    EPIDENDRUM WALLISII.]




                          EPIDENDRUM WALLISII.
                              [Plate 74.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ erect, three to four feet high, reed-like, as thick
  as a raven’s quill, leafy throughout, the sheaths, which nearly cover
  the spaces between the leaves, rugose and spotted with
  brownish-purple. _Leaves_ distichous, oblong-lanceolate, acute, about
  five inches long, and an inch or rather more in breadth.
  _Inflorescence_ racemose, the racemes many-flowered, with sheathing
  scales at the base, and furnished above with triangular-ovate bracts
  much shorter than the pedicels; the racemes are both terminal and
  lateral on the stems, the lateral ones being placed opposite the
  leaves. _Flowers_ numerous and showy, fully an inch and a half across,
  picturesquely coloured, fragrant, with a pleasant smell of honey and
  musk; _sepals_ and _petals_ ligulate-oblong, acute, deep golden
  yellow, marked with rather small distant deep carmine-crimson spots;
  _lip_ cuneately-flabellate, an inch broad, quadrifid, with a broad
  sinus in front, and smaller lateral ones, white, radiately pencilled
  with feathery lines of magenta-purple, which are minutely
  tuberculated, the disk yellow, bearing three or five short crests.
  _Column_ adnate, the anther-bed with a quadrifid limb.

  Epidendrum Wallisii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., iv., 66; ix., 462.


We have here one of the comparatively few ornamental species of
_Epidendrum_, but this, as has been truly remarked, is a real
beauty—interesting, moreover, as representing a peculiar type of the
genus, that has no pseudobulbs, but tall distichously-leafy stems, that
bear both lateral and terminal racemes of flowers at the same time and
on the same stems. _E. Wallisii_ appears to vary somewhat in its
flowers; one of those bloomed by the Messrs. Veitch and Sons being
recorded as producing flowers with unspotted yellow sepals and petals,
and a lip with three orange-coloured keels, and dark purple veins with
small spots and lines on a white ground.

This wonderful plant, which was first described in 1875 by Professor
Reichenbach, is peculiar in having its racemes of flowers both terminal
and lateral, on which account it will at once be seen it is of a very
floriferous habit. Our plate was prepared from a plant in the grand
collection belonging to Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., Burford Lodge,
Dorking, where, under the care of Mr. Spyers, it seems to have grown
remarkably well. We were, indeed, much surprised to find that it has
attained to such large dimensions. The first plants that flowered in
this country grew not more than from fifteen to eighteen inches high;
and, according to Mr. Wallis’s dried specimens, the plant in its native
habitat is even dwarfer. Now we have the plant, in the case of Sir
Trevor Lawrence’s specimen, attaining several feet in height, and
producing an immense quantity of flowers, thus showing how Orchids may
be improved by good cultivation. The flowers of this plant are generally
produced in October and November, and they last in perfection for a
considerable time.

_Epidendrum Wallisii_ should be grown in the Cattleya house, and does
best in a pot. We have found a mixture of peat and sphagnum to be the
most fitting compost in which to pot it. The plant should be elevated
well above the rim of the pot, and have a good supply of drainage. It
delights in a liberal supply of water during the growing season; and
when at rest should receive a less quantity, only just enough to keep
the bulbs from shrivelling.


Vandas Flowering in a Small State.—It is generally thought that these
Orchids only flower when they have attained considerable size, but such
is not the case. At the present time may be seen in the Victoria
Nurseries plants of _Vanda tricolor_ and its varieties, as also of _V.
suavis_, in bloom, though only from fifteen to twenty-four inches high,
having in some instances two spikes each. These are not cut-down plants,
but young offshoots that have been taken from the bases of the old
stools, and grown singly in pots. The secret of this is, that the growth
is well matured, in consequence of too high a temperature not being
maintained during the growing season, but plenty of light and air given
to the plants. These are conditions which Vandas delight in, as is
proved by the results.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 75.
    LÆLIA ANCEPS.]




                             LÆLIA ANCEPS.
                              [Plate 75.]
                          _Native of Mexico._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ narrowly ovate-oblong, compressed and
  two-edged, with prominent angles on the flattened sides, thus
  tetragonal, four to six inches long, clothed while young with large
  membranous scales. _Leaves_ oblong-lanceolate, bluntish, two, or more
  rarely one, from each pseudobulb, five to eight inches long, leathery
  in texture, dark green. _Scape_ terminal on the pseudobulbs, erect,
  often two feet long, terminating in a spike of three to five flowers,
  jointed, clothed with carinate bracts, and two-edged or ancipital,
  whence the name. _Flowers_ very large and attractive; _sepals_
  lanceolate, acuminate, about three inches long, spreading, of a
  charming delicate pinkish-rose; _petals_ ovate-acuminate, of the same
  colour as the sepals; _lip_ three-lobed, the lateral lobes inflected
  over the column, purplish-rose, paler on the lower side, yellow, and
  striped with purple inside, the reflexed front edge deep
  magenta-purple; middle lobe oblong-acute, recurved, rich deep velvety
  magenta-purple, white towards the base, the disk within the base
  yellow, traversed longitudinally by an elevated thickened ridge, which
  terminates in front in three crests. _Column_ semi-cylindrical,
  wingless.

  Lælia anceps, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, t. 1751; _Hooker_,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 3804; _Paxton_, _Magazine of Botany_, iv.,
  73; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 202.

  Bletia anceps, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, vi., 418.


In the subject of our present plate we have one of the oldest
inhabitants of our Orchid houses. It was introduced as far back as the
year 1833, and is one of the most beautiful of the numerous Mexican
_Orchideæ_. As a winter-flowering Orchid it stands unrivalled, coming as
it does into flower in mid-winter, and retaining its beauty for a long
period. It should be grown in quantity by every one on this account, for
a more useful decorative plant it would be difficult to discover.

There are several varieties of this handsome species, which are very
distinct from the type. Notably there is _Lælia anceps Dawsoni_, a white
form, which was figured in this work at Plate 44. Then there are _L.
anceps alba_, _L. anceps Hillii_, _L. anceps Barkerii_, and _L. anceps
rosea_, a pretty rose-coloured form, differing considerably from the
type. Our plate was prepared from a plant in the collection of D. B.
Crawshay, Esq., Rosefield, Sevenoaks, who was kind enough to allow our
artist to make a sketch of the plant.

_Lælia anceps_ is a dwarf-growing evergreen species, having oblong-ovate
bulbs, from four to six inches in length, furnished with
oblong-lanceolate leaves, which are produced from the apex of the bulb.
The flower-spikes are erect, produced just as the young growth is
completing itself. The sepals and petals are rosy lilac, the throat
yellow, with dark purple markings, and the lip rich magenta.

This plant should be grown in the coolest end of the Cattleya house, in
a position where it may obtain a plentiful supply of the sun’s rays, and
a liberal supply of air. If the cultivator could have partitioned off
from the cool house a small division in which to grow the sun-loving
Mexican Orchids, it would be advisable, as there are several kinds which
delight in the same treatment as this gem, viz., _Lælia autumnalis_, _L.
majalis_, _Odontoglossum citrosmum_, _Oncidium Barkerii_, _O. tigrinum_,
and many others we could mention; in fact, the reason we so seldom see
these plants grown as they should be, is that enough sun and air are not
given to them.

_Lælia anceps_ delights in a copious supply of moisture when growing,
and like other Orchids when at rest requires only just sufficient to
prevent the bulbs from shrivelling. It should be grown in a pot or
basket suspended from the roof, in a good airy position; the compost
best suited to it is good fibrous peat, with the addition of a little
moss. The plant is increased by division just as it starts into growth.


Cattleya labiata.—H. Gaskell, Esq., of Woolton Wood, Woolton, Liverpool,
has been kind enough to send us one of the finest inflorescences of this
old favourite we have ever seen. The spike carries five large flowers,
the sepals and petals are magenta-rose colour, the lip rich crimson.
This is one of the most useful Orchids for autumn-flowering, and we
regret to find it has become extremely rare.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 76.
    MASDEVALLIA DAVISII.]




                          MASDEVALLIA DAVISII.
                              [Plate 76.]
                           _Native of Peru._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ slender, densely cæspitose. _Leaves_ erect, dark
  green, leathery in texture, evergreen, six to eight inches long,
  narrowly ligulate-oblong, acute, carinate, narrowed downwards into the
  shortish petiole, which is invested at the base by a pale green
  sheath, an inch long, and having a shorter one at its base. _Scapes_
  slender, longer than the leaves, sheathed at the base, and furnished
  also with a sheathing oblong bract about their centre, and another
  just below the flower. _Flowers_ nearly horizontal, golden yellow;
  _sepals_ united into a sub-cylindraceous tube, half an inch long,
  gibbous at the base, the dorsal one ovately-triangular, passing into
  the filiform apex, which is three-fourths of an inch long, the lateral
  ones broader and longer, connate to beyond the middle,
  semi-oblong-ovate, broadest at the base, and suddenly acuminate near
  the apex, the opening having a narrow sinus; _petals_ small,
  dimidiate-oblong; _lip_ shorter than the petals, clawed, its limb
  linear-oblong, obtuse, deep crimson, sunk in the base of the sepaline
  tube, and there appearing like a small red eye at the bottom. _Column_
  wingless, toothed at the apex.

  Masdevallia Davisii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., ii., 710; _Id._ _Xenia Orchidaceæ_, iii., t. 3; _Hooker fil._,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 6190.


New Masdevallias are being introduced to cultivation every year, but it
is seldom that we get such a distinct and beautiful species as the
subject of our plate, brought under our notice. This little gem is
distinct from the other members of this ever-increasing genus both in
regard to form and colour, and should be sought for and added to every
collection where Masdevallias are grown. Our figure was taken from a
plant belonging to W. Lee, Esq., Downside, Leatherhead, in whose
collection these singular plants are well cared for, and at the time of
our visit were looking remarkably well.

_Masdevallia Davisii_ was discovered in 1874, by Mr. W. Davis, when
travelling in Peru, at a considerable elevation, and was sent home by
him to the Messrs. Veitch and Sons, of Chelsea, who distributed the
plant. The flowers are produced singly on the erect peduncles, which
proceed from the base of the leaf-bulb, and are generally produced in
October and November, lasting several weeks in perfection. The colour is
a bright chrome yellow, which from its distinctness contrasts well with
any other kinds of Masdevallias that may chance to be in flower at the
same time.

_Masdevallia Davisii_ requires the same treatment as that recommended
for _M. Harryana cœrulescens_, under Plate 24, and is propagated in the
same way.


The Effect of Fog on Orchids.—It is astonishing to notice the effects
upon Orchids of this the most disagreeable of all natural phenomena. The
most vexing part of the matter is, that as regards the culture of
Orchids we are unable to cope with it. Extremes of heat and cold, high
winds, and hailstorms, heavy falls of snow and rain—all these we are in
a great measure able to prevent from doing any harm to our plants; but
the fog demon, however careful we may be, outdoes us. We may keep our
doors closed, pull down the blinds, shut up the ventilators, but still
he is upon us, entering by the laps of the glass, or through the
crevices of the framework of the house. Nearly all Orchids which happen
to be either in flower or bud at the time a fog comes on, fall a prey to
its destructive powers. We have seen hundreds of buds of _Phalænopsis_,
flowers and buds of _Calanthe_, and the inflorescences of _Cattleyas_,
and other Orchids, turn yellow, and the flowers drop off in a very few
hours. All this is extremely vexing, especially if after having watched
some favourite plant, perhaps for years, just as it is showing flowers
for the first time, we see them thus come to an untimely end. It is
fortunate that some of the Orchid flowers are able to withstand its
effects. Of course, our brother cultivators in the country have not so
much to fear as those have who are located in the immediate
neighbourhood of the metropolis and other large cities, and we are
inclined to envy them their purer surroundings at this trying season of
the year—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 77.
    VANDA TRICOLOR.]




                            VANDA TRICOLOR.
                              [Plate 77.]
                           _Native of Java._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ tall, erect, leafy, producing stout aërial roots.
  _Leaves_ distichous, broadly lorate, channelled, longer than the
  inflorescence, overlapping at the base, obliquely bilobed and somewhat
  erose at the apex. _Racemes_ few-flowered. _Flowers_ handsome,
  sweet-scented, roundish in outline, but longer than broad, their depth
  being about two and a half inches, beautifully spotted, the pedicels
  white, striately furrowed; _sepals_ oblong-obovate obtuse, the edges
  rolled back, unguiculate, fully an inch long, coriaceous, pale creamy
  yellow, with a narrow marginal band of delicate rosy pink, spotted
  throughout, except at the edge, with deep rich brownish-red, white at
  the back; _petals_ similar in size, form, and colouring, but with the
  pink edge less distinct, and the spots somewhat fewer in number, and
  inclined to coalesce into stripes; _lip_ of about equal length,
  three-lobed, with a pair of erect rounded colourless lobes, standing
  one on each side the short blunt compressed white spur, and a convex
  cuneate deeply emarginate middle-lobe, which has three ridges
  extending from the disk to the front, two of which run out quite to
  the apex, and two white ridges at the mouth of the spur behind the
  disk; the colour is a bright rosy magenta, paler at the tip, the disk
  marked with about five white lines, of which the three central ones
  are longest. _Column_ free, short, thick, white.

  Vanda tricolor, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1847, _in note under_
  t. 59; _Id._ _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, ii., t. 42; _Id._ _Folia
  Orchidacea_, art. _Vanda_, No. 10; _Pescatorea_, t. 42; _Warner_,
  _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, ii., 39 (var. Warnerii); _Van Houtte_,
  _Flore des Serres_, t. 641; _Lemaire_, _Jardin Fleuriste_, t. 136.

  Vanda suaveolens, _Blume_, _Rumphia_, iv., 49.


It is with great pleasure that we here introduce to our readers a genus
of Orchids, which has been grown and exhibited for many years, and of
which we have in former days seen some wonderful examples produced. What
a contrast with those we meet with at the present time, when few really
fine specimens are brought out by exhibitors! What is there more
splendid or majestic than a _Vanda_ when grown into a large specimen?
The Vandas, indeed, possess good qualities that few other Orchids can
boast of, for they are stately in their growth, they have beautiful
evergreen foliage, they are of graceful habit, and their showy flowers
produced in fine spikes on either side of the plant are deliciously
fragrant, and continue in perfection for six weeks or more. Sometimes a
plant that has but one stem will produce three or four spikes of flower,
and bloom twice in a year. We have had plants only twelve inches in
height produce two flower spikes, and have bloomed many in an equally
dwarf state, as we are glad to know that others have also done. We are,
moreover, glad to notice that growers are now more generally successful
in retaining the leaves down to the rim of the pot.

It has been said that Vandas are difficult to flower, but if the proper
treatment is given, there is no difficulty about it. We have been
growing and exhibiting these plants for nearly forty years, and can with
confidence assert that they are the most useful Orchids we have met with
for exhibition and decorative purposes. They are also invaluable for
furnishing cut flowers to be used either in button-hole bouquets, or in
any other convenient manner. The plant now figured, our sketch of which
was taken from a small specimen at the Victoria Nurseries, Upper
Holloway, we consider the true _Vanda tricolor_; and there are besides
other specially fine forms, which in time we hope to illustrate.

_Vanda tricolor_ is an evergreen plant, with gracefully recurved
foliage. It grows to the height of five or six feet, and produces
“breaks” freely from the sides of the stem, generally at the base, so
that in time the plants form large specimens, and when the growths get
strong they all flower. We have seen as many as from ten to fifteen
spikes on the same specimen. The sepals and petals are pale yellow
spotted with reddish brown, and the lip is magenta, striped with white
at the base. The plants bloom at different times of the year, and
continue in perfection for about six weeks, perfuming the atmosphere of
the house in which they are grown. These Vandas are natives of Java, and
are of easy cultivation when they obtain suitable treatment. We have
grown them in the same house for more than twenty years, and have never
found any difficulty with them, but the plants have been constantly
growing, improving, and blooming.

The house in which we grow our Vandas is sixty feet in length, and
eighteen feet in width, with a centre and side tables, covered with
slate, the floors being of cement; three pipes pass round the house, and
these are fitted with about four zinc troughs to hold water during the
summer. The temperature during the resting season should be a minimum of
60°, but a few degrees higher would not do any harm at night; in the
daytime it should range about 65°, unless by sun-heat, under the
influence of which we allow it to get a few degrees higher. We always
give air when the temperature is 65°, but always avoid cold draughts. We
usually moisten our houses twice a day, morning and evening, if the
weather is at all fine and the house dry; but the application of
moisture should depend upon the weather; during the dull months of
autumn and winter a little will suffice, but in summer, of course, a
considerable amount of moisture spread over the tables and paths will be
required. We always avoid throwing water on the pipes to cause steam,
and we seldom syringe the plants unless there are some in a shrivelly
state, in which case they require to be kept in the shade, and should
have a slight syringing morning and evening in summer. The material we
use for potting is good sphagnum moss, and plenty of drainage. They will
also thrive in baskets suspended from the roof.

The great secret of getting the Vandas to bloom freely is to give them
plenty of light and air, and only sufficient shade to keep their leaves
from scorching. We use a very thin shading material made on purpose, and
both ourselves and our friends find it suitable for nearly all kinds of
Orchids.

These plants are subject to the attacks of a small white scale insect,
which, if allowed to get established, is very troublesome, but which can
be easily kept under by sponging. If the plants are in a healthy state
there is not much fear of their going wrong; but if the scale should be
found on them it must be taken in hand in good time. The best plan is to
get a little soft soap and make a lather, and rub this over the leaves,
allowing it to remain until the next day; then to wash it off, when it
will be found that the scales will come off easily. The cultivator
should, in fact, never allow his plants to get infested with the scale.
We do not find that any other insects attack them, excepting the green
fly, which sometimes makes its appearance when they are in flower, and
this may be removed with a fine hair brush. Vandas should never be
smoked, as it causes the lower leaves to drop off, which is a great
disfigurement to the plants.

    [Illustration: PL. 78.
    ZYGOPETALUM ROSTRATUM.]




                         ZYGOPETALUM ROSTRATUM.
                              [Plate 78.]
                         _Native of Demerara._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, subcompressed, furrowed,
  enveloped at the base by pale brown membranaceous bracts. _Scapes_ on
  the young growth, one to two flowered, issuing from the axil of the
  bracts which invest the immature pseudobulbs. _Leaves_ lanceolate
  acute, plaited, about six inches long. _Flowers_ large, six inches in
  depth, the dorsal sepal with the two petals directed backwards, the
  lateral sepals standing right and left behind the lip; _sepals_
  linear-lanceolate, three inches long, half an inch wide at the base,
  tapered to an attenuated point where they are bright green, whitish at
  the base, slightly stained along the median part more than halfway up
  with dull brownish purple; _petals_ similar in size, form, and
  colouring; _lip_ ovate acuminate, recurved, nearly three inches long
  and over two inches wide, pure white, yellowish behind the disk, which
  is furnished with a small angulate planted frill or ruff, of a pale
  lilac purple, and marked with a few (about ten) lines of the same
  colour, half an inch long, which radiate from the front part of the
  ruff. _Column_ white, arching, semi-cylindrical, with rounded wings
  near the apex, where it terminates in a short projecting beak.

  Zygopetalum rostratum, _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t. 2819 (as
  Zygopetalon).

  Zygosepalon rostratum, _Reichenbach fil._, _Annales Botanices
  Systematicæ_, VI., 666.


We are now about to bring under the notice of our readers one of our
oldest Orchids, and, withal, one of the most rare. Its foliage is
pleasing, and its flowers are not only large and showy, but of the most
charming character, as will be seen from the accompanying
representation, for the opportunity of securing which we are indebted to
Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., in whose well-known superb collection
at Burford Lodge, one is at all times certain to find a grand display of
rare Orchids in bloom such as will well repay a visit. This
_Zygopetalum_ makes a grand specimen for exhibition purposes; we used to
exhibit it many years ago at the Regent’s Park and Chiswick Shows, with
twenty or more of its handsome flowers upon the plant, and we may add
that it was greatly admired. It produces flowers from every growth, and
keeps a long time in good condition, so that we could always depend upon
it for the May and June exhibitions.

_Zygopetalum rostratum_ is a compact-growing evergreen plant, with small
pseudobulbs; it attains the height of eight inches, and produces its
flowers with the young shoots sometimes twice and even three times a
year, according as it makes its growth. The sepals and petals are of a
yellowish green; the lip large, two inches across, white, with a pale
purple or lilac ruff, and slightly striped at the base with the same
pale purple colour. The flowers last in perfection for several weeks,
providing they are kept dry.

This plant is best cultivated in pans, as it has a rhizome or creeping
stem that likes to root over the surface of the soil. It is of free
growth when it obtains the requisite treatment. We have found it to
thrive best in the East Indian house, on a side table, as near the light
as possible, but not exposed to the sun, as the leaves are tender and
easily get spotted. When a suitable place is found, let it remain in it.
It requires to be kept constantly moist at the roots, as it is nearly
always growing. We cultivate it in rough fibrous peat, with the addition
of sphagnum moss, and give good drainage. It does not require much
material to grow in, and it will repay all the pains bestowed upon it,
as it produces such a number of flowers.

The plant can be divided when strong and in vigorous growth, as it makes
roots quickly. It must be kept free from insects.

    [Illustration: PL. 79.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM GRANDE.]




                         ODONTOGLOSSUM GRANDE.
                              [Plate 79.]
                         _Native of Guatemala._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate-oblong, compressed, ancipitous, about
  three inches high, diphyllous, sheathed with large membranaceous brown
  scales at the base. _Leaves_ broadly lanceolate, striated, wavy, dark
  green above, dotted beneath with numerous minute dark brown dots.
  _Scape_ radical, two to five flowered, furnished at intervals and
  beneath each flower with a lanceolate membranaceous bract. _Flowers_
  very large and very handsome, seven inches across and nearly eight
  inches in depth, yellow, with bright chestnut spots; _sepals_
  oblong-lanceolate acute, wavy, four inches long, and about one inch
  wide, the lateral ones falcate, bright yellow, transversely blotched
  nearly to the tip with irregular mostly transverse blotches of glossy
  chestnut red; _petals_ oblong, acute, three and a half inches long, by
  about an inch and a half broad, slightly undulated, the upper
  two-thirds clear yellow, the base marked with an obcordate spot of
  shining chestnut red, an inch and a half deep, and which appears to be
  pectinately toothed at the sides; _lip_ smaller, creamy white,
  roundish emarginate, unguiculate, auricled at the base, with a row of
  small pale red irregularly-shaped blotches round the margin, and a few
  concentric bands of the same colour in front of the disk; the claw of
  the lip is yellow marked with red blotches, and having a large lobed
  tubercle in front. _Column_ semi-cylindrical, downy, with two blunt
  wings.

  Odontoglossum grande, _Lindley_, _Botanical Register_, 1840, misc.,
  94; _Bateman_, _Orchidacæ of Mexico and Guatemala_, t. 24; _Id._
  _Monograph of Odontoglossum_, t. 8; _Hooker_, _Botanical Magazine_, t.
  3955; _Van Houtte_, _Flore des Serres_, t. 21; _Paxton_, _Magazine of
  Botany_, viii, 49; _Jennings_, _Orchids_, t. 13; _Morren_, _Annales de
  Gand_, 1845, t. 37; _Regel_, _Gartenflora_, viii, t. 270; _Williams_,
  _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 234.


We here present a picture of one of our oldest cultivated Orchids, and
one which, we believe, is a universal favourite, for no person who is
fortunate enough to see this grand old plant in flower, can fail to
admire its beauty. The flowers make their appearance, too, when Orchid
blossoms are scarce, and at our autumn exhibitions it becomes invaluable
on this account. There are but few varieties of this species, but all
are worth growing; and they can be easily grown by everyone who has a
cool greenhouse. The specimens that were exhibited at the Edinburgh Show
in September last made a grand display. Our drawing was prepared from a
truly noble example, grown in the fine collection of C. Walker, Esq.,
Brettargh Holt, Milnthorpe, who has also many other rare and remarkable
specimens of the different classes of Orchids, which Mr. McGregor, the
gardener, has been very successful in cultivating. This interesting
collection was removed a few years ago from Lanark, N.B., to its present
location at Brettargh Holt.

_Odontoglossum grande_ is an evergreen plant, with compressed ovate
pseudobulbs, about three inches in height. The foliage is of a light
green, and the plants produce their flower scapes from the side of the
bulbs when the growth is nearly completed. The flowers are of large
size, and several together in a short erect or spreading spike. The
sepals and petals are of a lemon yellow, barred and spotted with rich
chestnut brown. The plant blooms during August, September, October, and
November, and continues for several weeks in beauty, if the flowers are
kept free from damp.

This species is of easy cultivation. It seems to thrive well in rough
fibrous peat, with good drainage, and elevated above the pot rim. A
moderate supply of water should be given in the growing season, which is
during spring and summer, but in the resting season only just enough
should be given to keep the bulbs in a plump state. The warmest end of
the Odontoglossum house will suit it admirably, and there it should be
placed as near the glass as possible, giving just enough shade to keep
the burning sun from injuring its foliage.


Orchids for the Drawing Room.—We often hear objections made to the
growing of Orchids on account of the great heat which, it is alleged, is
kept up in the houses required for their cultivation, many ladies and
gentlemen not caring to go into these heated structures. There are,
however, many ways in which Orchids may be seen and enjoyed without
entering the houses wherein they are cultivated, one of which we
witnessed a few weeks ago when calling at Bury to see the collection of
O. O. Wrigley, Esq. This gentleman has built a warm conservatory
adjoining his drawing room, and he was kind enough to show us how he
makes use of this to ensure an accessible display when his plants are in
bloom, namely, through a window looking into the conservatory, by which
means the beautiful flowers are brought fully into view. The plants are
plunged in a bed of bright green _Selaginella_, and mixed with choice
ferns, and altogether have a beautiful effect. Sometimes the display is
produced by some one kind of flower, such as the _Gloxinia_; sometimes
by another, as _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, or _O. Pescatorei_, and other
kinds, their graceful spikes overhanging the ferns and green mossy bed
of _Selaginella_, and thus producing a charming picture. The flowers can
always be removed as soon as they show signs of decadence, and be
replaced by others which are fresh and fair. There are many cool Orchids
that can be treated in this way, and the change increases the interest
of the group, by securing freshness and variety. We think Mr. Wrigley’s
idea of introducing his grand blooming Orchids to the notice of his
family and friends without obliging them to go through the heated houses
in order to see them, a very excellent one, especially during winter,
when ladies are often prevented by the damp and foggy atmosphere from
venturing out of doors. The window consists of a large sheet of plate
glass, which effectually prevents any damp from entering the room; and
through this one gets a fine view of the flowery scene. It is to be
regretted that this, or some similar arrangement, is not more frequently
adopted in similar cases, as it may generally be carried out with very
little trouble and expense.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 80.
    PHALÆNOPSIS MARIÆ.]




                           PHALÆNOPSIS MARIÆ.
                              [Plate 80.]
                  _Native of the Eastern Archipelago._


  Epiphytal. _Plant_ stemless, with flat aërial clinging roots. _Leaves_
  deflexed, distichous, oblong or ligulate, acute, somewhat channelled,
  two inches or more in width, stoutish in texture, dark green, glossy,
  obscurely striate. _Scape_ radical, bearing a many-flowered drooping
  raceme, shorter than the leaves, and proceeding from their axils.
  _Flowers_ of medium size, elegantly coloured; _sepals_
  narrowly-oblong, bluntish, about an inch long, the lateral ones
  slightly falcate, white, with about six bold transverse bars or
  blotches of a deep chocolate red, the basal spots magenta-coloured
  like the lip; _petals_ shorter, broader and more obovate, marked in a
  similar manner, but with fewer blotches, the colour being the same as
  in the sepals; _lip_ obovate oblong, apiculate, convex, somewhat
  constricted at the sides, of a rich deep magenta-rose, the middle lobe
  plane not pilose. _Column_ short, white, without fringes at the apex.

  Phalænopsis Mariæ, _Reichenbach fil. M.S._


In this little Moth Orchid we have a very pretty novelty, for the
opportunity of figuring, which we have to acknowledge our indebtedness
to the Messrs. Veitch and Sons, of Chelsea, for whom the plant was
collected by Mr. F. W. Burbidge, now the energetic Curator of the
Trinity College Botanic Gardens, Dublin. Mr. Burbidge has been good
enough to inform us that the plant was found in a totally new habitat,
at an elevation of 2,000 feet above the sea level. Only four plants were
originally found, although a large sum was offered for specimens of it
to the natives, in whose language it is known as the Rain-flower, on
account of its opening its first blossoms at the commencement of the wet
monsoon. Mr. Burbidge adds that it was discovered by him “when
travelling in the Eastern Archipelago for the Messrs. Veitch, and that
it has been named by Professor Reichenbach in compliment to Mrs.
Burbidge.

“At first sight the plant both in its habit of growth, and in its
blossoms, is suggestive of _Phalænopsis sumatrana_, especially the
beautiful variety of that species known as _lilacina_, but in _P.
Mariæ_, there is no brush-like apical lobe to the lip, nor is the apex
of the column fringed as in that species. The bold amethyst-coloured
blotches on the snow-white sepals and petals are very lovely, and,
although the flowers are not so large as those of some others of its
congeners, it affords, nevertheless, another illustration of the
pleasing beauty of mountain flowers. It has a singularly hardy
constitution, and so bears the vicissitudes of transit better than many
of its allies.”

Though this new species is not so showy as many other kinds, it is quite
worthy of a place in the most select collection, the flowers being
exceedingly pretty and very pleasingly coloured. It has bloomed with the
Messrs. Veitch during the past year, and was exhibited by them, and
greatly admired at one of the Royal Horticultural Society’s Meetings. It
is of this plant, thanks to the importers, that our artist was allowed
to avail himself in preparing the figure we now publish.

It produces drooping foliage of a light green colour, and bears several
flowers in a pendent raceme. The sepals and petals are white,
transversely barred with reddish brown and rosy purple, and the lip is
of a deep rich magenta.

The plant requires the same kind of treatment as the other species of
_Phalænopsis_, which has been already explained in connection with
Plates 11 and 39 of our first volume.


Orchids at Woolton Wood, Liverpool, the Seat of H. Gaskell, Esq.—We have
had great pleasure in visiting this place, and may state that we were
greatly surprised to find such a fine collection of Orchids brought
together in so short a space of time. Mr. Gaskell has commenced in the
right way, in that he has built good houses for the various Orchids that
come from different climates, and require a distinct mode of treatment.
No doubt this collection will take rank amongst the finest in the
country, especially as it is the good kinds only that are being added to
it. This, indeed, is the only way in which a really select collection
can be made; but when this is done, the plants are of real value, and
every day become more and more interesting to the owner. In this case,
Mr. Davis, who has the care of the plants, takes great interest in their
welfare, the result being that they are thoroughly well attended to.

We noticed in the Woolton Wood collection some fine specimens of
_Cattleya labiata_ in full bloom, one plant having had several grand
spikes of flowers upon it; there were also in bloom _C. exoniensis_, _C.
gigas_, and a very fine _C. maxima_, which were extremely showy. In the
same house, along with many other fine Orchids, were the lovely _Vanda
cœrulea_, with fifteen finely-coloured blossoms; a superb variety of
_Cymbidium Mastersii_ in full beauty, and some grand Cattleyas and
Lælias. We also noticed a wonderful specimen of _C. Skinneri alba_, such
as we had no idea was to be found in the country.

In the next house was a fine lot of plants, many of them in bloom. Among
the Calanthes, which make a grand show at the dull season of the year,
we noticed many fine Odontoglossums, including some good varieties of
_O. Alexandræ_ in full bloom. The cool Orchids were thriving well in the
different houses.

We were glad to see that Mr. Gaskell intends to have a good collection
of East Indian Orchids. We noted some fine specimens of _Phalænopsis_,
_Saccolabium_, _Vanda_, &c. These genera rank amongst the finest of
their race. In addition to the Orchids there are here other valuable
plants, and a nice fernery, which is always interesting, as the plants
associate so well with the Orchids. We regret that our space is too
limited to permit us to give further details of this charming
collection.—B.S.W.

    [Illustration: PL. 81.
    CATTLEYA CRISPA BUCHANANIANA.]




                     CATTLEYA CRISPA BUCHANANIANA.
                              [Plate 81.]
                          _Native of Brazil._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ clavate, eight to ten inches long, furrowed,
  monophyllous. _Leaves_ evergreen, coriaceous, about a foot long,
  oblong-lanceolate, obtuse, emarginate. _Scape_ emerging from a large
  oblong compressed leafy spathe, which is obliquely acute at the apex,
  and bearing a four to seven-flowered raceme. _Flowers_ large and very
  handsome, with a beautifully crisp-edged and veined lip; _sepals_
  lanceolate-obovate, that is, broadest upwards, the margins revolute at
  the base, the tips recurved, of a very delicate tint of blush white;
  _petals_ of the same colour as the sepals, much broader, ovate, with
  the base cuneate, and the margin strongly undulated and crisped; _lip_
  with the basal part or side lobes rolled around the column, recurved
  in front, crisped at the edge, and showing a feathery blotch of
  purplish-crimson on a white ground: the throat bright yellow with
  several purple-crimson streaks in the middle part, these passing
  outwards to the antical portion, which is broadly ovate acuminate,
  recurved at the tip, strongly frilled or crisped, of a bright rich
  rosy crimson, margined with white, and charmingly reticulated over the
  apical portion. _Column_ enclosed, elevate, semiterete, marginate.

  Cattleya crispa Buchananiana, _supra_.


The charming subject we now have the pleasure to bring under the notice
of our readers is a grand variety of the old _Cattleya crispa_, and one
of the most beautiful and richly-coloured flowers that have ever come
under our notice. There are several varieties of _Cattleya crispa_, but
that which is now before us is the finest we know of, and moreover
produces its flowers in great profusion. We exhibited a specimen of this
variety at the International Show in Edinburgh, where it was greatly
admired by the lovers of Orchids, the plant being finely in flower.
Blooming at a time when there are comparatively few Orchids in the
flowering state, _C. crispa_ and its varieties come in extremely useful
at the many exhibitions held during the month of September, and help to
make a good display. There is some difference of opinion amongst the
Orchid authorities as to the proper generic name of this plant, some
referring it to _Cattleya_ and some to _Lælia_; we follow the original
describer of the species, the late Dr. Lindley, by retaining it in
_Cattleya_; in truth there is but a very slight technical difference
between them, though in any case _Cattleya_ has precedence of _Lælia_.

Our drawing was taken from the specimen above alluded to before it was
exhibited in Edinburgh. That plant is now in the possession of J.
Buchanan, Esq., Oswald Road, Edinburgh, in whose honour it has been
named. Mr. Buchanan is a great admirer of good Orchids, and is forming a
nice collection, in which are already included some rare species.

_Cattleya crispa Buchananiana_ is of the same habit of growth as the
type, and has dark evergreen foliage and large flowers, which stand out
boldly from each other. The sepals and broader petals are of a blush
white; the lip large, of the richest crimson, and more crisped at the
edge than in most of the species. It produces from four to seven flowers
on the spike during the months of August and September, and continues
for two or three weeks in full beauty.

Our present subject is a free-growing plant, and thrives under the same
treatment as _Lælia purpurata_, being very much like it in its habit of
growth. The requisite material in which to cultivate it is good fibrous
peat, accompanied by ample drainage, as it requires a moderate amount of
moisture, when in vigorous growth, which is during the winter season; of
course at that time of year the soil does not dry so rapidly, and
therefore water given twice in the week will usually supply all the
wants of the plants, but should the weather be very bright, more might
be required. This plant makes its growth in autumn and winter, and
therefore must be kept as near the light as possible, which will induce
greater vigour, and the flowers will be produced more freely. The
burning rays of the sun must be kept from the foliage by means of
moderate shading.

This, like other Cattleyas, is subject to the attacks of insects, which
must be well sought after, so as to be dislodged before they get too
strongly entrenched upon the plant. White scale quickly disfigures the
leaves if allowed to remain. Moreover, the thrips will sometimes attack
the young growth, and should be destroyed by syringing.

This species is easily propagated by dividing the bulbs, leaving several
to each piece. This should be done when the plants are starting into
growth. After this they must be kept shaded until they make fresh roots
in the new soil. A plant should never be divided unless it is in
vigorous health, for otherwise the experiment will probably fail.


Phajus tuberculosus.—This great rarity has at last flowered again with
Baron Schröder, The Dell, Staines. We believe it was first bloomed in
this country by Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., when it was exhibited
by him at South Kensington. It is a great beauty. The flowers are
produced in an erect spike; the sepals and petals are pure white, the
basal lobes of the lip are yellow, spotted with purplish crimson,
producing a bronzy effect, the surface being studded with hairs, and the
apical portion white, spotted with rose, and very finely and densely
frilled, while the crests on the disk are orange-yellow. This splendid
novelty is considered very difficult to cultivate, but Mr. Ballantyne
seems to have hit upon the plan of successfully managing it.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 82.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM LONDESBOROUGHIANUM.]




                   ODONTOGLOSSUM LONDESBOROUGHIANUM.
                              [Plate 82.]
                          _Native of Mexico._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong-ovate, two and a half inches long,
  glaucous green, becoming furrowed when old. _Leaves_ deciduous,
  ligulate acute, channelled towards the base, of a light green colour.
  _Scape_ three to six feet long, arching, bearing at the upper end a
  many-flowered raceme. _Flowers_ showy, with a large conspicuous bright
  yellow lip; _sepals_ oblong, apiculate, concave, narrowed at the base
  into a short claw, slightly wavy at the edge, pale yellow,
  transversely barred with short oblong blotches of chestnut-red;
  _petals_ ovate, concave, with a broad base, sessile, the apex broad,
  obtusely apiculate, the margins wavy and reflexed about the middle,
  the upper portion coloured like the sepals, and marked with transverse
  bars, the basal part marked concentrically; _lip_ with a long yellow
  claw, spotted with chestnut-red, and having at its base two small
  oblong obtuse erect yellow auricles (sagittate), the flat transversely
  reniform limb one and a half inch wide, of a clear bright yellow;
  between the basal auricles are two shorter rounded incurved lobes,
  forming a scoop-like hollow, which is yellow, spotted on the inside,
  the front being produced below into a prominent keel, having a blunt
  arm on each side at the base. _Column_ slender, semi-terete, curved,
  yellow, with a red line on each of the very shallow wing-like angles.

  Odontoglossum Londesboroughianum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, N.S. xvii., 772.


We have in _Odontoglossum Londesboroughianum_ one of the most distinct
and brilliantly coloured of the Odontoglots, for there are but few of
the species that we have in our plant stoves which produce flowers of a
bright golden-yellow colour. There are many varieties of it dispersed
through different collections, the individual form varying in the size
of their flowers and in the depth of their colour, some being of a paler
yellow than others. The form which we here illustrate is a very good
one, and was received from the fine collection of H. J. Buchan, Esq.,
Wilton House, Southampton. Under the care of Mr. Osborn, the gardener at
Wilton House, it has bloomed freely, and, with its long graceful spikes
overhanging the foliage of other plants, it is found to have a charming
effect. It is also extremely useful when cut for ornamenting vases, as
in these days of æstheticism yellow always proves an acceptable colour
in floral decoration. The blossoms, moreover, have a brilliant effect
when tastefully arranged in vases, if used amongst flowers of other
appropriate contrasting hues.

_Odontoglossum Londesboroughianum_ is a deciduous plant, losing its
foliage in winter; the leaves are of a light green colour, while the
pseudobulbs are glaucous. The stems bearing the inflorescence are from
three to six feet in length, the number of flowers produced being rather
sparing. The sepals and petals, which are concave, are yellow, barred
with reddish brown, while the lip is of a bright rich yellow. The plant
blooms during the autumn months, and continues in perfection for several
weeks.

We have found this species to thrive well when fastened on blocks of
wood, and also when grown in baskets, with good drainage and rough
fibrous peat or sphagnum moss; it requires a good supply of moisture at
the roots in the growing season, but a less quantity when at rest. When
grown on blocks it is necessary that more water should be given, as the
blooms dry up quickly. The Cattleya house seems the most suitable
structure in which to cultivate it, and here it should be suspended from
the roof, so that it may be as fully exposed to the light and as near to
the glass as is possible.


Orchids at Pickering Lodge, Timperley, the Seat of George Hardy,
Esq.—This collection of Lælias and Cattleyas is well worth a journey to
see. The plants are well grown, and form a finer lot of specimens than
can be met with in most collections. They have been cultivated here for
some years past, and a portion of them have been grown on from small
plants. We noticed some very fine specimens of _Lælia purpurata_, from
two to three feet in diameter, and showing a fine series of flower
sheaths for blooming this season; also others of _Cattleya crispa
superba_. There is a _Cattleya Skinneri_, a wonderful specimen, three
feet across, showing a goodly number of sheaths. _Cattleya Warnerii
superba_ is a grand specimen, and of this species Mr. Hardy has many
fine varieties. There are also notable specimens of _C. Mossiæ_, _C.
Trianæ_, and the beautiful _C. Mendelii_, not only fine plants, but good
varieties. _Cattleya exoniensis_ we found splendidly in bloom—one of the
best of the forms, of which there are several in cultivation; in this
the lip was of the richest colours we have seen. There are many other
fine Cattleyas and Lælias in the collection, many of which have taken
the highest awards at the great shows at Manchester.

There are also in this collection fine examples of _Dendrobium_,
_Saccolabium_ _Aërides_, _Phalænopsis_, and other East Indian Orchids;
and a very large number of cool Orchids, such as _Odontoglossum
Alexandræ_; of this we saw a fine branched spiked form in full beauty
among the many hundreds of good plants in the house, which contains also
notable examples of _O. Pescatorei_, various species of _Masdevallia_,
and others. This collection is one full of interest, as there are always
many fine varieties in blossom, and the plants are well grown and duly
cared for.—B. S. W.


Cattleya Trianæ alba.—E. Wright, Esq., of Gravelly Hill, Birmingham, has
sent us a fine form of this beautiful Cattleya. The whole of the flower
is pure white, with the exception of a pale yellow blotch in the throat.
We are pleased to find that this charming variety is becoming more
plentiful, as white flowers are always in request, and good white
Cattleyas are never too plentiful.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 83.
    CATASETUM CHRISTYANUM.]




                         CATASETUM CHRISTYANUM.
                              [Plate 83.]
                    _Native of the Amazon Country._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ stoutish, fusiform, jointed, six to eight inches
  long, and clothed with whitish membraneous sheaths. _Leaves_ several
  from the apex of the younger stems, lanceolate-lorate, acuminate,
  plaited, the basal part channelled and sheathing the upper part of the
  stems. _Scape_ radical, bearing an erect six to seven flowered raceme,
  with distinct sheathing scales below. _Flowers_ remarkable in form,
  large, spreading, brown and green, each with a narrow bract at its
  base; _sepals_ lanceolate-acuminate, the dorsal ones erect, the
  lateral ones spreading horizontally, dark reddish or chocolate brown;
  _petals_ connivent, parallel with the dorsal sepal, of a lighter
  brown, obscured, spotted with still paler brown at the base; _lip_
  short, with a bluntly conical saccate pouch, and a three-lobed limb:
  the front lobe obovate apiculate, bent down on both sides,
  olive-green, ciliate with short brown fringe-like teeth, the lateral
  lobes squarish, bright green, with much longer purple fringes, the
  spur or pouch pale brown outside, darker brown within, and having a
  square oblong mouth with the front margin nearly straight, and the
  hinder margin with two upright emarginate lamellæ. _Column_ green,
  with a long erect green subulate inflexed beak, on two deflexed setæ
  below the anther bed, green, curving outwards like tusks.

  Catasetum Christyanum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S., xvii, 588.


The subject of our present illustration belongs to a most peculiar
family of Orchids, and one which is especially interesting to those who
are fond of curiosities. “Take Cataseta into your stoves,” observes
Professor Reichenbach, “and you are pretty sure to become more or less
bewitched, earlier or later.” No doubt they are full of interest to the
botanist, but they are not so useful for purposes of decoration, nor so
attractive as objects of beauty as are many others of their race.
Possibly, however, some of our readers may admire the peculiar forms and
colours of this flower, more than the showy and bright shades we so
often meet with among the infinitely varied genera of _Orchidacæ_. It
has been pointed out that the close affinity of this plant is with
_Catasetum saccatum_, a Demerara species introduced in 1840. It is
certainly a very remarkable Orchid, and our artist has made a very
faithful representation of it from a specimen growing in the collection
of Thomas Christy, Esq., Malvern House, Sydenham, after whom it is
named, and who not only possesses many new and rare species, but also
takes great interest in their cultivation. _Catasetum Christyanum_ is a
deciduous species, with fusiform stem growing about eight inches in
height. It produces its flower-spikes from the base of these stems, on
erect scapes bearing in each spike about half a dozen flowers. The
sepals and paler petals are of a dull purplish red, which is relieved by
the green of the lip. The plants usually bloom during the autumn months,
but we believe the blossoms do not last very long after they have
expanded.

Mr. Christy has bloomed another variety of the same plant, with smaller
and greener flowers, which has been called _C. Christyanum chlorops_.

We find the different species of _Catasetum_ to thrive very well in the
Cattleya house, if provided with fibrous peat and good drainage at the
roots, and suspended from the roof of the structure in baskets. They
must not receive too much water at any time, and when their growth is
completed they should only have just sufficient to keep them in a plump
condition, as they have thick fleshy bulbs to be maintained fresh and
healthy during their resting season.


Lælia superbiens.—We received from A. H. Smee, Esq., the Grange,
Carshalton, a fine spike of flowers of this noble Orchid, forming in
itself a most beautiful bouquet, the sepals and petals were of a rosy
pink, the lip dark rose colour, with the throat of a primrose-yellow,
veined with rosy purple, the upper part dark rose. It is altogether a
charming winter-blooming species, but it is seldom seen. Mr. Smee is a
great lover of Orchids, and is beginning to make a collection, in which
already some rare species appear. He is trying experiments in their
cultivation, and we are inclined to think that many plants will succeed
under his treatment. The house is a very peculiar one; we have not seen
one like it before. It is a long house, and in it there are different
temperatures kept up, so that the different Orchids can be grown in the
same house. Many plants were in bloom when we saw the collection in
January last. The place is a very interesting one, and in the summer
must be very charming on account of the great variety of Ferns and other
plants that are grown there, almost all kinds of plants being
cultivated. The garden must be a source of great enjoyment to the
owners, as both Mr. and Mrs. Smee take much interest in their Orchids
and other plants.—B. S. W.


Cattleya Trianæ Russelliana.—We were highly delighted to see this old
favourite the other day at Baron Schröder’s, where it was flowering
profusely. The plant was in a fourteen-inch pot, and had as many as
eight spikes, bearing in all sixteen flowers. In the same house were
several other fine varieties of _C. Trianæ_, including _C. Trianæ
Backhousiana_, but _C. Russelliana_ was a long way in advance of
anything there represented, in fact there is no doubt it is the finest
variety of the dark-lipped section of _C. Trianæ_ at present known. The
lip of this variety is two inches across, and the colour, which is well
carried back into the throat, is a most intense crimson-magenta. There
is no margin of a lighter tint as in many of the other varieties, but
the rich colour is as dark at the margin as in the centre. In addition
to this the flowers are of great substance.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 84.
    CATTLEYA DOWIANA AUREA.]




                        CATTLEYA DOWIANA AUREA.
                              [Plate 84.]
                         _Native of Colombia._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ stout, clavate, furrowed, eight to ten inches high,
  monophyllous. _Leaves_ evergreen, broadly oblong, obtuse, coriaceous,
  nearly a foot long. _Scape_ terminal, about four-flowered, emerging
  from a compressed bluntish leafy spathe. _Flowers_ very large, about
  six inches across and seven inches deep, with a superbly-coloured lip;
  _sepals_ linear-lanceolate, plane, recurved at the tip, four inches
  long and about three-fourths of an inch wide, the dorsal one somewhat
  shorter and broader, all pale or primrose-yellow; _petals_ ovate,
  apiculate, about three inches long and two and a half inches broad, of
  the same colour as the sepals; _lip_ obcordate, very large, four
  inches long and nearly three inches wide, obscurely three-lobed:
  lateral lobes erect, and meeting over the column, purple-crimson,
  closely veined with deep golden-yellow: front lobe very large, deeply
  emarginate, with the edge undulated, closely and finely crisped, rich
  velvety purple-crimson throughout, with about three golden lines down
  the centre, extending to within about one-third of the apex, from the
  outer of which branch off curving towards the margin a close series of
  golden reticulations, the sides being also marked by irregular
  blotches of gold. _Column_ pale yellow, clavate, curved down, and
  almost covered by the lateral lobes of the lip.

  Cattleya Dowiana aurea, _supra_.

  Cattleya aurea, _Linden_, _Catalogue_ (1872); _Id._ _L’Illustration
  Horticole_, 1881, 80.


The species of _Cattleya_ are great favourites with all growers of the
gorgeous race of Orchids. It is no less gratifying than surprising to
see the many new forms that are being brought home by our energetic
collectors, and great praise is due to them for their indefatigable
exertions in this matter. There is no doubt that the Cattleyas rank
amongst the richest-coloured of the genera of Orchids, and many of them
even when not in blossom, if well grown, form attractive specimens,
their foliage being of a beautiful dark green and their growth compact.

The plant we now illustrate is one of the most distinct and beautiful of
the family. Our drawing was taken from a fine specimen in the grand
collection of R. P. Percival, Esq., Clevelands, Birkdale, Southport, who
has one of the largest and best grown collections of Cattleyas to be
found; many of his plants have been imported within the last few years,
and are wonderfully well grown, as, indeed, will appear when the number
of flower sheaths showing on the different specimens is stated; thus, of
_Cattleya Mendelii_ there are 80, of _C. Mossiæ_ 250, of _C. Trianæ_
369, and many others. We may add that a lesson may be learnt from Mr.
Percival and his gardener respecting the growth of the Cattleyas. No
doubt Southport has great advantages over some other districts as
regards purity of atmosphere and abundance of light and fresh air, but
there are many persons having houses of the same kind, and a position
equally advantageous, who would not obtain the same results. The rule we
always lay down for the cultivation of these plants is to secure for
them all the bright light possible. The only way to be successful in
growing them is to give them plenty of light, air, and moisture in their
growing season; and even in their resting season they require all the
available light. There is no doubt that the main reason why these plants
are grown so well is that Mr. Percival perseveres in getting to know the
wants of the various species, many of which require treatment differing
from their fellows, some, for example, liking more moisture than others,
while others require more heat. All this may be learned by studying the
altitudes to which the plants ascend in their native country—information
which is to be obtained partly by reading, and partly from collectors
and growers. There are many other Orchids grown in the collection
besides Cattleyas, and Mr. Percival is building separate houses for the
different classes—houses constructed of good size, and so that they
afford plenty of air and light. Small houses suit Odontoglots, but
Cattleyas require more room.

_Cattleya Dowiana aurea_ is an evergreen plant, with clavate stems about
eight inches in height, bearing broad dark green foliage, it being after
the style of _C. gigas_ in its growth. It comes from a different country
from _C. Dowiana_, which is a Costa Rica species, but is so much like it
that we cannot separate the two, the chief difference being in the
colour of the flowers, which in the variety aurea is of a lighter yellow
than in the type. There is a wonderfully fine illustration of _C.
Dowiana_ in Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous Plants_, series 2, t. 27,
which was taken from one of the finest plants of that species which we
have yet seen. In _C. Dowiana aurea_ the sepals and petals are of a
primrose-yellow, while the broad lip is of a fine magenta, richly veined
and blotched with golden-yellow. It is altogether a charming flower,
blooming during the summer and autumn, according as it makes its growth,
the flowers being produced before the growth is completed. They last
three weeks or more in beauty if they are kept free from damp; if,
therefore, they are placed in a dry warm house they will keep fresh
until the last, for it is dampness which is the cause why these and
other Orchid flowers often become spotted with decay. It is better to
have a flowering house for those plants which are in blossom.

We find this variety requires the heat of the Cattleya house, and should
be grown close to the light, being planted in good fibrous peat, with
abundant drainage, so that a good supply of moisture at the roots may be
given without risk during the growing season. When the plants are at
rest a more limited supply will suffice. The plants should be suspended
from the roof of the Orchid house.

    [Illustration: PL. 85.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM HEBRAICUM LINEOLIGERUM.]




                 ODONTOGLOSSUM HEBRAICUM LINEOLIGERUM.
                              [Plate 85.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ elongate-ovate, compressed, upwards of two
  inches in height, pale green, brownish in age. _Leaves_, one or two
  springing from the apex of the pseudobulb, and frequently with a
  smaller one from its base, ligulate-oblong acute, nine inches to a
  foot in length, bright green. _Scape_ supporting a dense elongated
  raceme of elegant flowers, radical, that is springing from the base of
  the pseudobulb. _Flowers_ large, upwards of three inches in breadth
  and depth, the ground colour at first yellow, afterwards changing to
  creamy white, and freely spotted with purplish crimson; _sepals_
  lanceolate, attenuately acuminated, pale yellow, marked thickly on the
  lower half with deep purplish crimson, in bars and elongated blotches,
  which are sometimes confluent, the edges slightly wavy; _petals_
  similar in size, form, colour, and marking; _lip_ elongate-triangular,
  or narrowing from a broad base to the acuminate apex, toothed and
  undulated at the margin, pale yellow, deeper at the base, where there
  are placed a pair of prominent divergent crests, very sparingly
  spotted with the same colour as the sepals. _Column_ arcuate,
  club-shaped, with the wings toothed.

  Odontoglossum hebraicum lineoligerum, _Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xix., 44.


This beautiful plant was first flowered by Charles Winn, Esq., of the
Uplands, Selly Hill, near Birmingham, and was by him submitted to
Professor Reichenbach, who gave it the name here adopted. It has also
been flowered by Mr. Cypher, of Cheltenham, who has kindly forwarded one
of its pseudobulbs for description, and from whom we learn that while on
the imported bulbs two leaves were developed, the bulbs formed in this
country have as yet only borne a single leaf. It is a very distinct
variety, and will make a charming companion to the already famous
_Odontoglossum hebraicum_, of which but few specimens have yet been
introduced into our Orchid-houses. They will form welcome associates of
the better forms of _O. Alexandræ_, which are among the most useful of
all Orchids for decorative purposes, and of the best of which we hope to
submit to our subscribers at some future time a series of authenticated
figures. Among them are to be found some plants bearing pure white
flowers, while in others the blossoms are beautifully spotted with
crimson and reddish brown, or have the sepals and petals suffused with a
delicate rose colour. Mr. Winn, in whose fine collection the plant now
illustrated was bloomed, has a very choice lot of these cool
Odontoglots, which are well cultivated by his gardener, Mr. Shields.

There is no doubt that under good treatment the Odontoglots requiring
what is called cool treatment are among the most accommodating of
Orchids for the amateur, as they take but little room and require but a
small amount of heat. Moreover, they thrive well in the suburbs of our
smoky cities and towns, such as Birmingham and Manchester, or even in
the cities themselves, if a small well-appointed house can be provided
for their accommodation; for as they will do well without much sun, the
back of a north wall will suit them well, provided they get plenty of
light and air, while the fire-heat required in growing them forms but a
small item of expense. There are besides many cool orchids of other
genera that may be grown in the same way, many of which may be purchased
at a very small cost.

This interesting Odontoglossum is a compost-growing plant, like the
type, and appears to be a free bloomer. The flowers, as we learn from
Mr. Winn, open of a pale yellow, and are richly spotted and barred with
purple-crimson, the lip also being pale yellow, and spotted, though in a
less degree, with purple-crimson, but after about two days the ground
colour changes to creamy white. They remain for a long time in a fresh
state if kept from the damp. The plant requires the same treatment as
_Odontoglossum hebraicum_ and _O. Alexandræ_. We find rough fibrous
peat, with good drainage, to suit them all well; a little broken
charcoal and crocks mixed with the peat being of great benefit to them.
It must be borne in mind that they must not be potted too firmly, as
their roots differ from those of hard-wooded plants, which require that
kind of potting. With these, on the other hand, the more porous the soil
is kept the better, since they require a good deal of water about their
roots at most times of the year, and it then passes away more freely.
Another important item in their treatment is to raise the plant one or
two inches above the rim of the pot. A little sphagnum moss placed on
the top of the peat is beneficial to them, if it can be kept in a
growing condition, as it maintains a nice moisture about the plant. If
the moss should become decayed it must be removed, and some fresh living
sphagnum applied. The plants will grow without the moss, but we prefer
to use it. Avoid overpotting, which is often detrimental to them, for
they do not require too much of the potting material about them; the pot
should, in fact, be just large enough to hold the plant, and to admit a
small quantity of the material being placed around it. A temperature of
45° to 50° in winter, and from 50° to 65° in summer, suits the
Odontoglots of the _Alexandræ_ section. In summer, indeed, they can
scarcely be kept too cool.

    [Illustration: PL. 86.
    CYPRIPEDIUM PARISHII.]




                         CYPRIPEDIUM PARISHII.
                              [Plate 86.]
                         _Native of Moulmein._


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ short, erect, leafy. _Leaves_ coriaceous, loriform,
  eight to ten inches long, and two inches broad, channelled and
  equitant at the base, obliquely obtuse and bifid at the apex,
  distichous, deep full green. _Scape_ stout, erect, densely hairy,
  green, two feet long or upwards, five to six-flowered, each flower
  issuing from a semi-amplexicaul boat-shaped green, ovate, acute,
  glabrous bract, ciliated at the tip, the lower ones larger. _Flowers_
  singular in their conformation, not brilliant in colour, but pleasing
  in character, and long enduring; _dorsal sepal_ one and a half inch
  long, erect, ovate-oblong acute, somewhat keeled, the sides revolute
  near the base, giving it the appearance of being clawed, the tip
  somewhat recurved, greenish straw-colour tinged with purple; _lateral
  sepals_ connate, greener, the back marked with two distinct green
  keels meeting at the point; _petals_ narrowly strap-shaped, widest
  below, and thence tapering to the point, four inches long, whitish
  green at the base, with scattered black spots, and a purple edge,
  which widens upwards till about half the length, when they become
  wholly of a glossy purple on both sides, twisted, the margin having
  here and there a black hairy wart; _lip_ one and a half inch long, the
  basal half narrowed from the infolding of the edges, deeply stained
  outside with purple, spotted with purple within, and furnished with
  purple hairs directed backwards, the pouch oblong, blunt, with an
  expanded mouth, and two erect ear-like angles projecting upwards and
  outwards, pale green, freely stained with purple. _Staminode_ large,
  depressed, obovate bifid, with a blunt spur near the base, green,
  whitish at the edge, hairy.

  Cypripedium Parishii, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Flora_, 1869, 322; _Id._
  in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, 1869, 814, with a woodcut; _Hooker fil._,
  _Botanical Magazine_, t. 5791; _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5
  ed., 156.


The genus _Cypripedium_ is now an extensive family of Orchids in which
many new species and varieties are constantly appearing, some of them
importations, but many of them the results of the well-applied skill of
the hybridiser, through whose agency some really good and interesting
additions to the older kinds have been, and are being made. It forms a
most useful group of Orchids, most of them being of easy cultivation,
and the flowers lasting a long time if due care is taken of them. Some
Orchid growers discard them because of the stiff and formal outlines of
their flowers. That character certainly does not apply to the Moulmein
species we now introduce to our readers, as it is of a singularly
graceful appearance, as may be seen from our sketch. The illustration
was taken from a fine spike that was forwarded to us by A. Paul, Esq.,
Gilmore Place, Edinburgh, a gentleman who has a very good collection,
and is one of those amateurs who are fond of, and takes a personal
interest in their plants. Mr. Paul has exhibited some well-grown
specimens at the Edinburgh shows during the past few years, and has
taken some of the highest honours.

_Cypripedium Parishii_ was discovered and introduced by the Rev. C.
Parish, after whom Professor Reichenbach has named it; most of the
plants originally collected, with many other Orchidic rarities, being,
it would appear, destroyed by the unruly elephants, who threw off their
loads, and trampled them under foot. It is an evergreen herbaceous
plant, of good habit, with deep green foliage, about a foot in length.
The flower-spike proceeds from the centre of the young growths when
nearly completed, and bears several flowers, sometimes as many as six,
the sepals being broad and greenish like the lip, and the petals long,
undulated, greenish white at the base, the upper portion deep purple,
and the margin furnished with hairy warts. It blooms during the summer
and autumn months, according as the completion of its growth may take
place earlier or later in the season; and the blossoms last for several
weeks in perfection.

The plant thrives when grown in the East India house. We have also found
it to do well at the warmest end of the Cattleya house. It does best
when grown in a pot, with good fibrous peat or good loam, mixed with
lumps of charcoal, and with thorough drainage. It requires a liberal
supply of water during the growing season, and when at rest should not
be kept dry, since it has no thick fleshy bulbs to support the foliage,
and, moreover, it is nearly always growing.

This species may be propagated by dividing the plant after it has
started into growth, leaving one old-established crown at the back of
the young growth; place the divided parts in small pots until they are
established, and then remove them into larger ones as they require it,
but avoid overpotting them.

    [Illustration: PL. 87.
    VANDA TRICOLOR PLANILABRIS.]




                      VANDA TRICOLOR PLANILABRIS.
                              [Plate 87.]
                           _Native of Java._


  Epiphytal. _Stem_ erect, leafy, as in the type. _Leaves_ distichous,
  ligulate, oblique at the apex, of a very dark green colour. _Scapes_
  lateral, erect, green, bearing a dense raceme of eight to twelve
  flowers, of which the pedicels are white. _Flowers_ very stout in
  texture, and beautifully coloured, white exteriorly; _sepals_
  leathery, roundish-obovate, clawed or cuneately narrowed at the base,
  citron-yellow, with crowded reddish-brown spots, longitudinally
  arranged, especially in the median parts, more irregular but with the
  longitudinal tendency near the margin; _petals_ of similar form and
  substance, rather narrower at the base, marked with linear blotches on
  the claw-like portion, and with rounder and more spot-like markings on
  the broader surface; _lip_ contracted in the middle, having two short
  white rounded lateral lobes at the base, and a large oblong front
  lobe, with projecting auricles above the purple-striped claw, flat,
  with the broader and bluntly rounded apex emarginate, the basal
  portion deep magenta-purple, the upper portion beyond the contraction
  a paler tint of the same, and the disk marked with five white lines,
  of which the central one is longer, and extends half-way to the
  emarginate apex. _Column_ thick, white.

  Vanda tricolor planilabris, _Lindley_, _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, ii.,
  t. 42, in note; _Id._ _Folia Orchidacea_, art. _Vanda_, No. 10.


This species is one of the most beautiful of the Vandas, and comprises
many varieties which differ much both in form and colour—sufficiently
so, we think, to justify the adoption of distinctive names; but the
botanists tell us that we must take them as varieties of _Vanda
tricolor_, and distinguish them from each other as best we may. That
which we are now about to figure and describe, is very distinct in the
form of its flowers, as well as in colour, from the typical _V.
tricolor_, represented at Plate 77. The plant from which our drawing was
taken is a very fine specimen in the collection of Joseph Broome, Esq.,
Woodlawn, Didsbury, near Manchester, who is not only a great lover of
plants, but also one who does much for the general advancement of the
interests of horticulture.

_Vanda tricolor planilabris_ is a plant having a stately habit of
growth; it is furnished with dark green foliage, and produces its
flower-spikes on each side of the plant, from the axils of the
two-ranked leaves, at different times of the year, usually bearing from
seven to ten flowers on a spike. The sepals and petals are yellow,
thickly marked with rich brown spots; the lip is rose colour, margined
with purplish mauve, and striped with chocolate-brown. It continues for
at least six weeks in perfection.

The plant requires the same treatment as that recommended for the allied
plants under Plate 77, where a full account of these Vandas will be
found.


Odontoglossum lyroglossum.—We received a fine spike of flowers of this
rare Odontoglossum from E. Harvey, Esq., Aigburth, Liverpool,
accompanied by a drawing of the same from the pencil of Miss
Harvey—which latter we have returned, and for the use of which we beg to
tender her our best thanks. It is a very pretty and interesting species.
The spike bore eight blossoms, of which the sepals and petals were of a
pale yellow, spotted with chestnut-brown, and the lip also yellow, with
large brown spots in the centre.

We had the opportunity of seeing Mr. Harvey’s collection of Orchids when
at Liverpool in December last, when we found many of them in bloom, and
among them some rare species, as well as good varieties of Cattleyas,
Dendrobes, Lælias, and other genera. There was besides a fine assortment
of Odontoglossums, some of which—good ones—were in blossom, and many
others were showing flower-spikes. They were in excellent health, and
made a nice display. In addition to the Orchids we found there a grand
collection of Hardy Alpine Plants, which are well cared for, and in the
spring and summer months must form a very interesting feature of the
garden.—B. S. W.


Phalænopsis Mariæ, _Burbidge_ Plate 80.—We have been requested by
Professor Reichenbach to mention that there exists some misapprehension
as to the above quoted name, which was not given by him, as stated in
the text which accompanies Plate 80, but was used by Mr. Burbidge, who
dedicated the plant to his wife on the very spot where he found it, in a
little Sondaic island. “I have, indeed,” he adds, “accepted the name,
but of course left the publication to the author; had I named the plant,
I would have published it in the _Gardeners’ Chronicle_. It is painful
to me to write thus, but to justify myself I must do so; for now-a-days
one is frequently worried with prescriptions how some unknown plant must
be named provided it be new, and I have always declined to name plants
in honour of ladies whom I have never seen, and who do not, so far as I
know, stand in any special relation to plants.”

    [Illustration: PL. 88.
    CATTLEYA LABIATA.]




                           CATTLEYA LABIATA.
                              [Plate 88.]
                          _Native of Brazil._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) short, club-shaped, furrowed when
  old, invested by greyish membraneous sheaths, one-leaved. _Leaves_
  coriaceous, oblong obtuse, of a dark green. _Scape_ issuing from an
  elongate oblong compressed double sheath, of a paler green than the
  leaves. _Flowers_ two to five—usually about three—on each spike, large
  though not equalling in size many of the forms of _C. Mossiæ_, the lip
  very richly coloured; _sepals_ lanceolate, acute, plane and entire at
  the margin, recurved at the apex, of a very pale delicate tint of rosy
  blush; _petals_ of the same colour, but three times as broad, ovate,
  bluntish at the apex, the margin undulated; _lip_ obovate, with the
  two sides connivent over the column, of the same delicate blush tint
  as the sepals and petals, the front part beyond the tubulose portion
  expanded (about two inches broad and long), rounded, deeply
  emarginate, almost wholly of a very rich lustrous deep magenta-purple,
  a broad bar of which is continued towards the base down the centre of
  the tube, and on each side of this bar at the mouth of the tube is a
  roundish-oblong patch of creamy yellow, which becomes paler as it
  spreads towards the edge; the margin neatly and densely frilled, and
  having at the extreme edge a narrow border of pale rosy blush, which
  is continued around the whole of the richly-coloured front lobe.
  _Column_ clavate, semi-terete, shorter than the tube.

  Cattleya labiata, _Lindley_, _Collectanea Botanica_ t. 33; _Id._,
  _Genera and Species of Orchidaceous Plants_, 116; _Id._, _Botanical
  Register_, t. 1859; _Id._, _Paxton’s Flower Garden_, t. 24
  (varieties); _Hooker_, _Exotic Flora_, t. 157; _Id._, _Botanical
  Magazine_, t. 3998; _Loddiges_, _Botanical Cabinet_, t. 1956;
  _Paxton’s Magazine of Botany_, iv., 121; _Van Houtte_, _Flore des
  Serres_, tt. 1893-4; _Jennings’ Orchids_, t. 45; _Williams_, _Orchid
  Grower’s Manual_, ed. 5, 122.

  Epidendrum labiatum, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Walpers’ Annales
  Botanices Systematicæ_, vi., 313 (var. _a. genuinum_).


This fine species has been known in England since 1818, and _Cattleya
Loddigesii_ excepted (originally grown as _Epidendrum violaceum_), was
the first Cattleya introduced and the type of the genus, which was named
in compliment to W. Cattley, Esq., of Barnet. There are two or three
varieties of the autumn-flowering _C. labiata_, the one having foliage
of a light green, and the other of a darker green with the under side of
the leaf also darker-coloured than in the first. It is the same in the
case of _C. (labiata) Warnerii_, the sub-species named in honour of Mr.
R. Warner, the two forms of which may be easily distinguished from the
typical _C. labiata_, since they generally bloom in May and June. There
are many wonderful sub-varieties of _C. Warnerii_, both as regards the
colour of lip and the size of the flowers, and some of these have been
sold by collectors as the true autumn-flowering _C. labiata_, though
that is easily distinguished from _C. Warnerii_ by those who really know
the two plants.

We have been cultivating Orchids for nearly forty years, and have never
known the original _C. labiata_ to be imported during that period. It is
this that makes it so scarce, and causes it to fetch the high prices
that it does. Another reason is, that it blossoms when few Cattleyas are
in flower, _i.e._, in October and November, and so every grower desires
to possess it. We remember many years ago seeing plants of this species
two feet in diameter in the collection of R. Hanbury, Esq., The Poles,
near Ware. Mr. Hanbury had a wonderful specimen in his first collection,
which went to Germany. Many other such plants were to be seen in those
days; and it would appear that these plants have been divided, and
distributed among growers. It is greatly to be regretted that our
collectors do not again discover its habitat.

The specimen we now illustrate is from a well-grown plant in the fine
collection of H. Gaskell, Esq., Woolton Wood, Woolton, Liverpool, where
it bloomed with five very fine flowers on a spike. A most wonderful and
lovely spike it was, and we regret not being able to depict it full
size, in order to show off its beauty.

There is another variety of _C. labiata_ that blooms in August, and is
very distinct from the old variety referred to above both in the colour
of its flowers and its foliage; it is called _C. labiata pallida_. There
are two very fine plants of this variety in the collection of the Comte
de Germany, Chateau de Gouville, near Rouen, in France; each plant has
over a hundred bulbs—a grand sight when in bloom.

_Cattleya labiata_ is an evergreen plant, and is also one of the most
free-flowering Cattleyas we have in cultivation, since every good growth
brings its blossoms, a strong one, producing a spike of five flowers
from a double sheath. The individual flowers are of large size, the
sepals and petals pale soft rosy-pink, the lip rich magenta, margined
with light rosy-pink, and the sides of the throat orange-yellow; they
last in their freshness and beauty for some three or four weeks. This
species requires the same treatment as _C. Mossiæ_, that is, to be
planted in good fibrous peat, and to have perfect drainage; it will grow
either in a pot or in a basket, and requires a moderate supply of water
during the growing season, which is in the spring and summer months. In
winter, when the plants are at rest, they merely require sufficient
moisture to keep the bulbs and leaves in a plump state; but it is very
detrimental to Cattleyas to keep them too dry, as this often causes them
to shrivel and turn yellow, and when this occurs it takes a long time to
recover their healthy condition. We do not agree with over-watering or
over-potting Cattleyas—both practices are extremely dangerous,
especially the use of too much material about the roots, which becomes
soddened by the necessary moisture, and causes the roots to decay. If
the plants should fall into this misfortune, they should be completely
shaken out of the material used, their roots well washed, and then be
potted in crocks until they make fresh roots. They must be kept in a
shady place during the continuance of this _régime_, and until they
appear to have regained their vigour, after which they may be allowed
all the light obtainable.

    [Illustration: PL. 89.
    EULOPHIA GUINEENSIS PURPURATA.]




                     EULOPHIA GUINEENSIS PURPURATA.
                              [Plate 89.]
                   _Native of West Tropical Africa._


  Terrestrial. _Pseudobulbs_ short, roundish-ovate, marked near the apex
  with one or two annulate scars, indicating the bases of former leaves.
  _Leaves_ with an oblong-oblanceolate acuminate blade six inches long,
  narrowed below into a petiole of about half the length, somewhat
  plicate. _Scape_ arising from the base of the pseudobulb, twelve to
  fifteen inches high, including the _raceme_ of seven to ten flowers,
  furnished at intervals with pale brown sheathing bracts, which become
  smaller upwards. _Flowers_ pedicellate, spurred, remarkable for their
  narrow dark sepals and petals and their broad highly-coloured lip;
  _sepals_ about an inch long, linear acuminate, deep rosy purple, the
  lateral ones spreading horizontally; _petals_ directed upwards between
  the erect dorsal and the spreading lateral sepals, and similar to them
  in size, form, and colour; _lip_ three-lobed, the front lobe
  roundish-ovate pointed, about an inch and a quarter in length and in
  breadth, wavy at the margin, of a rich bright magenta, traversed by
  deep crimson flabellate veins, which become deep rosy purple as they
  converge towards the base when they suddenly stop, the extreme base
  being white; the side lobes are short and blunt, of a blush. _Spur_
  slender, deep purple, three-fourths of an inch long. _Column_ bent
  forward, rosy purple, slightly keeled at the back.

  Eulophia guineensis purpurata, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Kotschy’s
  Plantæ Binderianæ Niloticæ Æthiopiceæ_, 3; _Kotschy_, _Plantæ
  Tinneanæ_, 63.


_Eulophia_ is a small genus of Orchids of which a few species are known
in cultivation. The one we now describe is a most beautiful and distinct
variety of a species which was cultivated many years since, and one that
everyone may admire. Our drawing was taken from a specimen in the grand
collection of Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., Burford Lodge, Dorking.
It is a very rare plant, and is most difficult to import from its native
habitats. It is also supposed to be difficult to establish, but it is so
rare that few persons have had the opportunity to try it. Sir Trevor
Lawrence manages to cultivate it very successfully, and we have also
seen it well grown in the Collection of H. Shaw, Esq., of Buxton, who
has also flowered it. We have heard of very few other plants, and,
therefore, we should like to see a good importation of it, as many
cultivators would, we are quite sure, be glad to possess such a gem.

_Eulophia guineensis purpurata_ produces small oval-shaped pseudobulbs,
and has light green plicate foliage, ten inches or a foot in height. The
flower stem is produced from the base of the bulb with the young
growths, and reaches to a height of eighteen inches, terminating in a
spike of ten or more flowers. The sepals and petals are brownish purple,
veined with a darker brown, and the lip is magenta-rose, veined with a
darker magenta, the throat being white. It blooms in September and
October.

Being a terrestrial Orchid it is best grown in a pot, with good fibrous
loam, leaf soil, and sharp river sand; a little charcoal should be mixed
with the soil, and good drainage is essential, since a moderate supply
of water during the growing season is needed. When at rest only just
enough water should be given to keep the bulbs plump. We have found it
do well in the Cattleya house, placed as near the light as possible, but
shaded from the hot sun. The leaves being thin they are apt to scorch.
It is propagated by dividing the pseudobulbs, leaving one old pseudobulb
along with the new one.


Odontoglossum triumphans.—We have received, through the post, from J.
Gordon, Esq., Aikenhead, Cathcart, near Glasgow, flowers of two distinct
varieties of this beautiful species, varying both in size and in hue.
One variety was of large size, and very bright in colour, the sepals and
petals being of a clear golden yellow, barred and spotted with
brownish-crimson, and the lip white, with the throat yellow, and the
apical portion brownish-crimson. The other variety was smaller, and as
Mr. T. Hogg, the gardener, informs us, was from a pseudobulb with two
spikes bearing twenty-nine expanded flowers; in this the sepals and
petals were nearly all brownish-crimson, with very little golden yellow,
the lip white, with a large irregular blotch of brownish-crimson on the
antical portion—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 90.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM CORADINEI.]




                        ODONTOGLOSSUM CORADINEI.
                              [Plate 90.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ elongate-ovate, compressed, somewhat ribbed,
  usually diphyllous. _Leaves_ narrow, ligulate, or ligulate-oblong,
  acuminate, of a deep green colour, an extra one or more sometimes
  sheathing the base of the pseudobulbs. _Scape_ radical, with small
  triangular bracts supporting a slender spreading raceme of nine to ten
  flowers, which forms a neat spike of about a foot in length. _Flowers_
  stellate, somewhat over three inches in breadth and length; _sepals_
  lanceolate, tapered to a long narrow point, pale yellow, with about
  two large irregular sometimes broken spots of chestnut-brown at some
  distance from the base; _petals_ similar in form and colour, one inch
  and a half long, marked with a large often bipartite spot at a
  considerable distance from and one or two smaller spots nearer the
  base; _lip_ shorter than the petals, obovate-oblong, apiculate,
  contracted in the middle, paler yellow, with a squarish spot of
  chestnut-brown on the middle or contracted portion, and a few spots or
  blotches near the base, where there is a crest of two upcurved horns.
  _Column_ whitish, semiterete, with brown blotches in the sub-rhomboid
  wings, which are denticulate on the outer edge.

  Odontoglossum Coradinei, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, 1872, 1068, fig. 251; _Id._ _Xenia Orchidacea_, ii. 208,
  t. 192, figs. 1-4.


This is one of the numerous imported forms of Odontoglots which are
supposed to be natural hybrids, many of which are so beautiful and so
much sought after, becoming greater favourites as time passes. We are by
no means surprised at the growing taste for this charming Orchidic
genus, since the plants are of easy culture, require nothing but cool
treatment, and their flowers, which are of long duration, are borne on
graceful spikes.

The form we now represent is distinct in colour, and comes in as a good
contrast with the varieties of _Odontoglossum Alexandræ (crispum)_—a
contrast which it should always be sought to establish in making a
collection, in order to produce a picturesque effect in the house, since
the different varieties when associated show each other off to
advantage.

The plant was found in New Grenada by the collectors Chesterton and
Coradine, and was named by request of the former (who has lately died)
in honour of his companion in travel. It appears to be a hybrid between
_Odontoglossum triumphans_ and some of the _O. odoratum_ group, and
would seem to be somewhat variable in character. The sketch we publish
was taken from a plant in the collection of Robert Warner, Esq.,
Broomfield, near Chelmsford, who has the largest and finest collection
of Odontoglots we have seen, extending to about twelve thousand plants.
In this collection we have seen many hundred spikes of _O. Alexandræ
(crispum)_—and other kinds in bloom at the same time, and, arranged as
they were in two long houses, the sight was a glorious one, never to be
forgotten. A similar magnificent display is obtained every year.

_Odontoglossum Coradinei_, which is very rare, forms a compact-growing
plant, furnished with lively green foliage, and producing its flowers,
about nine in number, on a drooping spike; the sepals and petals are
primrose colour, spotted with a warm brown, and the lip is primrose,
with an oblong spot of brown in the centre. The plant blooms during
winter, and lasts for several weeks in full beauty. It requires to be
grown in the cool house, and should have the same temperature and
treatment as _O. Alexandræ_.


Mr. Lee’s Vandas.—We were favoured recently with a box of Orchid flowers
from W. Lee, Esq., Downside, Leatherhead. The box contained twenty-one
grand spikes of varieties of _Vanda suavis_ and _V. tricolor_, amongst
which were some of the finest forms we have ever seen. It was, indeed, a
feast of Vandas to have so many fine varieties side by side. Amongst the
varieties of _V. tricolor_ were many forms—from a pale variety with a
whitish ground up to the most superbly marked one of the series, which
Mr. Lee calls the “Downside” variety. The markings of this gem are very
rich and distinct, the spots being well defined, of a bright
chestnut-brown, and the lips a rich magenta. _V. tricolor Patersoni_ and
_V. tricolor superba_ were quite in the shade by the side of this great
beauty. _V. tricolor Warnerii_ was also grand, but of a different type
to the last-mentioned plant, having rosy margins around the sepals and
petals; this plant is well figured in Warner’s _Select Orchidaceous
Plants_.

Of _Vanda suavis_ there were some magnificent forms, one, marked Lee’s
variety, being especially fine; this had thirteen flowers on the spike;
the sepals and petals were of fine form, with distinct pale
brownish-crimson spots. In some cases the spotting of this variety is
very peculiar, especially on the lower parts of the sepals and petals,
where the spots or stripes are from half an inch to three-fourths of an
inch long, rendering the markings very distinct.

Accompanying the Vandas was a fine variety of _Cattleya Mendelii_,
called _Jamesiana_, with rose-coloured sepals and petals, and a broad
well-fringed lip, two inches across, of a bright magenta, with the
throat yellow, streaked with dull purple; the petals are distinctly
blotched with bright magenta at the apex.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 91.
    PHAJUS TUBERCULOSUS.]




                          PHAIUS TUBERCULOSUS.
                              [Plate 91.]
                        _Native of Madagascar._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) fusiform or sub-clavate jointed, dark
  green, annularly marked by the pallid bases of the leaf-sheaths.
  _Leaves_ oblong-acuminate, about a foot long, plicate, narrowed below,
  the base again enlarged so as to clasp the stems. _Scape_ produced
  with the young growth, green, below bearing lanceolate imbricated
  bracts, and terminating in an erect raceme of six or more flowers.
  _Flowers_ spreading, two and a half inches across, of singular form;
  _sepals_ ovate-acuminate, stoutish, pure white; _petals_ of the same
  colour and texture as the sepals, but rather broader and more oblong;
  _lip_ obliquely funnel-shaped at the base, with a blunt chin
  projecting upwards, three-lobed; the two _basal lobes_ large,
  suborbicular, meeting the column, yellow, thickly blotched with
  irregular spots and dots of a dull crimson, producing a bronzy effect,
  furnished with scattered hairs on the surface, wavy at the edge;
  _front lobe_ smaller, roundish-emarginate or subcordate, wavy, white,
  with rosy purple marginal spots, closely frilled; _disk_ yellowish
  white, with three deep orange-yellow crests or ridges towards the
  front, the crests bluntly toothed and wavy along the upper edge, the
  central one forked about the middle; near the base, a short distance
  from the column, is a small tuft of pale sulphur capitate hairs.
  _Column_ slender, incurved, club-shaped, white, tinted with purple in
  front.

  Phaius tuberculosus, _Blume_, _Museum Botanicum Lugduno-Batavum_, ii.,
  181; _Id._, _Orchidées de l’Archipel Indien et du Japon_, 13, t. ii.
  B.; _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xv., 341, fig. 67; _Reichenbach
  fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., xv., 428.

  Limodorum tuberculosum, _Du Petit-Thouars_, _Orchidées recueillies sur
  les trois Iles Australe d’Afrique_, t. 31.

  Bletia tuberculosa, _Sprengel_, _Systema Plantarum_, iii., 744;
  _Lindley_, _Genera and Species of Orchidaceous Plants_, 123.


The plant we are now about to describe, and of which a figure
accompanies these remarks, is one of the most beautiful and distinct yet
known, one, moreover, which has only bloomed in few collections. It is a
new introduction from Madagascar, and as yet is a very rare plant, being
difficult to import and also to establish, which is much to be regretted
on account of its beauty. Our plate was taken from a well-grown specimen
in the fine collection of Baron Schröder, of The Dell, Staines, where,
under the care of Mr. Ballantyne, the plant is very successfully
managed. Sir Trevor Lawrence, Bart., M.P., has also been fortunate in
flowering it, and, indeed, it was first exhibited by him.

_Phaius tuberculosus_ produces short fusiform fleshy stems, from which
proceed the new growths, consisting of a tuft of plicate leaves, of
light green colour, and with them the flower spike, which is erect, and
has as yet only borne about half-a-dozen flowers on each. It blooms
during January and February, and is difficult to establish and
cultivate. As the plant gets better understood it may be found more easy
to import, and other growers may then be more successful. Many of the
imported plants have been lost through want of knowledge as to packing
and other requirements of travel; there is little doubt that our
collectors will be more successful as to these matters, and then we may
expect the plants to reach Europe in safety. We know of many Orchids
that were once considered difficult to import which are now obtained
safely in quantities through being sent at the proper season. If plant
collectors would study this point they would be very much more
successful than they have hitherto been. Of course it is difficult for
one to be on the spot at the moment when the plants have matured their
bulbs, and so as to get them to this country before they start into
growth, but if this could be done there would be more chance of saving
them.

There is another important point affecting cultivation, namely, that
more complete information where and how the plants are found in their
native habitats should be obtained and furnished. A great deal of the
success in the development of all these and other plants depends on
their proper treatment as regards the temperature and the supply of
moisture. If they are found in low-lying districts they require quite a
different treatment to that of those which occur in high and mountainous
districts.

Whenever we find a plant, as this is, difficult to cultivate, we should
endeavour to find out which house suits it best; this may easily be done
if we have different houses situate in different aspects, and even if
there is but one house a great deal can be done by placing the plant in
different positions in that house. If it does not succeed in one part it
may do so in another, and should it happen that a plant is found to
thrive well in a particular part, an endeavour should be made to keep it
there during its season of growth, and should it be removed during the
resting period let it be put back again the following season to make its
growth. There is more than many growers imagine in this matter of
setting plants in the places which they are found to like best. Some
cultivators, because they have succeeded for a few years, think they can
do as they please with a particular plant, but this is an error. We
often meet with cases in which persons have grown their plants well for
a few years, after which they go back. The cause is generally not far to
seek. It may often be attributed to over watering, or to keeping the
plants dry when they should have been moist, or to changing the
temperature, or allowing the plants to get dirty. There are various
other causes of non-success, such as acting on the advice of different
persons, rushing suddenly into different modes of treatment, using
different materials, or some other such-like practices. We have in our
time seen many new schemes tried, and have to record that many of them
have utterly failed.

    [Illustration: PL. 92.
    DENDROBIUM FINDLEYANUM.]




                        DENDROBIUM FINDLEYANUM.
                              [Plate 92.]
                         _Native of Moulmein._


  Epiphytal, _Stems_ jointed, the joints oblong-pyriform, complanate,
  two inches long or more, the lower part of each internode slender,
  stalk-like, and invested by the leaf sheath, the upper end much
  thickened, and at length becoming more or less furrowed. _Leaves_
  linear oblong acute, three inches long, soon falling. _Peduncles_
  lateral, two-flowered, with small appressed bracts. _Flowers_ rather
  large, three inches across, showy, the colours being clear and
  attractive; _sepals_ lanceolate, recurved, the lateral ones somewhat
  broader, of a light purplish mauve colour, whitish towards the base;
  _petals_ larger and more oblong, white at the base, and heavily tipped
  with pale purplish mauve; _lip_ stilted, roundish-cordate, concave,
  the sides meeting over the column, white, slightly tipped with purple,
  the disk velvety, marked with a large roundish orange-yellow blotch,
  paler at the edges, the basal callus obscure. _Column_ with two deep
  purple hands in front.

  Dendrobium Findleyanum, _Parish and Reichenbach fil._, in
  _Transactions of the Linnæan Society_, xxx., 149; _Reichenbach fil._,
  in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_, N.S., vii. 334; _Hooker fil._, _Botanical
  Magazine_, t. 6438.


The Dendrobes form a large and splendid group of Orchids, in which may
be found some of the finest examples of the Orchid family. The species
we have now the pleasure to bring before our readers is of recent
introduction, and is one of the most beautiful and distinct of the whole
family, not only as regards its flowers, which are very attractive, but
also on account of its very peculiar jointed stems, of which a better
idea will be obtained from our illustration than from any minute
description. The figure was taken from a beautiful plant grown in the
large collection of J. T. Peacock, Esq., Sudbury House, Hammersmith, who
is an enthusiastic collector and cultivator of plants, and has many
houses filled with Orchids, which are doing well under the care of Mr.
Vicary, the gardener.

_Dendrobium Findleyanum_ is a free-growing plant, and its curiously
knotted stems have a singular appearance. The blossoms are produced very
freely; the sepals and petals are white, tipped with pale magenta, while
the lip is white, with the apex rosy purple, and the throat or disk
yellow. It flowers during March and April, and lasts for two or three
weeks in beauty.

We find it does well in a pan or basket, suspended from the roof, in the
East India house, where it can receive all the light possible, and be
shaded slightly from the sun in summer. The material used about its
roots must be rough peat and sphagnum moss. It needs a liberal supply of
water during the summer season, and must be kept moist until it has
completed its growth, when less water may be given, just sufficient to
insure the plumpness of the stems.


Orchids at Summer House, Hammersmith, the Residence of J. T. Peacock,
Esq.—The collection of Orchids grown by Mr. Peacock is truly surprising,
as was the show of flower when we paid a visit to it in March last.
There were then many hundreds of blooming Orchids, especially of
_Phalænopsis_, of which there were in one house hundreds of flowers of
the different species and varieties, the drooping spikes overhanging and
mingling with each other, and presenting a striking picture, some being
snowy white, and others of different shades of mauve colour; there were,
moreover, some very good forms among them. In an adjoining house were
some very fine plants of _Dendrobiums_, such as _D. Findleyanum_, _D.
crassinode_, and _D. Wardianum_; also hundreds of flowers of _D.
Freemanii_. In the same range of houses we saw a fine lot of
_Odontoglossum vexillarium_, showing well for bloom. _O. Phalænopsis_
was doing well, which we do not often see. Of _O. Roezlii_ there were
many fine plants in good health, as there were also of _O. Alexandræ
(crispum)_, of which a great number were in bloom. _Cattleya citrina_
was well grown—better than we have seen it before; the plants were
suspended from the roof. _Lycaste Skinneri_, of which we found a huge
lot in bloom, were producing very fine flowers. We were surprised to see
such fine plants of _L. Skinneri alba_ in blossom. Mr. Peacock has been
very fortunate in flowering these from an importation, as it is a rare
and chaste variety. In the next house were many hundreds of
_Odontoglossum Alexandræ_ and _O. Pescatorei_, and other kinds; many of
them were in bloom, and among them were some good varieties.

We also noted some good East Indian Orchids, many plants of _Angræcum
sesquipedale_, and other kinds. There was a fine collection of
_Cattleyas_ in a large span-roofed house, amongst which were some good
forms of _C. Trianæ_ in full bloom; also a grand lot of _Cymbidium
eburneum_ in flower, the white blossoms with the graceful green foliage
having a good effect. There were several other houses filled with
Orchids. If Mr. Peacock continues as he has begun, he will presently
have the largest collection of these plants in the country. That this is
likely to be the case we may presume, for we saw several other new
houses intended for Orchids in the course of construction. Mr. Vicary,
the excellent gardener, is one who takes great interest in the
collection under his charge, and therefore we may expect that good
results will be assured.—B. S. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 93.
    CATTLEYA SCHOFIELDIANA.]




                        CATTLEYA SCHOFIELDIANA.
                              [Plate 93.]
                          _Native of Brazil._


  Epiphytal. _Stems_ (pseudobulbs) from one to one and a half foot long,
  slender, terete, slightly thickened near the top, jointed, the
  internodes nearly covered by whitish membranous sheaths, diphyllous.
  _Leaves_ oblong obtuse, about six inches long and two inches wide, of
  a deep glossy green, shortly stalked, the stalks spotted behind with
  dull dark red. _Flowers_ about two, large, six inches broad, and about
  the same in depth, very handsome, in the way of those of _Cattleya
  granulosa_; _sepals_ ligulate-oblong, bluntly acute, the dorsal one
  over, the lateral ones rather under three inches long, nearly one inch
  broad, of an Indian or pale tawny yellow, having a flush of purple and
  a tinge of green, the whole spotted thickly with crimson-purple, the
  spots most numerous on the outer half of each lateral sepal; _petals_
  obovate, rounded at the apex, narrowed towards the base, about three
  inches long and one and a half inch broad, of the same colour as the
  sepals, the spots towards the edges coalescing in divergent, sometimes
  forked, lines, which run out to the margin; _lip_ two and a half
  inches long, three-lobed, the lateral lobes whitish, large, obliquely
  ovate, meeting over the column, the middle lobe with a long narrow
  claw, and a small transversely reniform fimbriated blade, which,
  except at the pallid edges, is entirely covered by lamellæ and papulæ
  of the most beautiful magenta-purple, the claw-like portion having a
  dash of yellow in its ground colour. _Column_ whitish, curved, hidden
  by the lateral lobes of the lip.

  Cattleya Schofieldiana, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S. xviii., 808.


We have in cultivation many handsome species of _Cattleya_, but that now
before us is very distinct from any we have previously seen, and is
quite new to us. The growers of Orchids are all on the lookout for new
species, especially such as are distinct. We are, therefore, glad to be
able to bring such a beautiful and charming species as this, under the
notice of our readers. There are, indeed, numerous other fine Cattleyas
in cultivation, but many of them are much alike in form and colour. The
present type is, however, distinct, and embraces but few forms,
especially with blossoms of an equal size. Our illustration was taken
from a well-grown specimen in the select collection of G. W.
Law-Schofield, Esq., New-Hall-Hey, Rawtenstall, near Manchester, in
whose honour it was named by Professor Reichenbach. This is the only
plant of which we have any knowledge as existing in the country, and Mr.
Schofield has been truly fortunate in introducing it.

_Cattleya Schofieldiana_ is an evergreen species, with slender terete
stems, each bearing two leaves, about five inches in length and two in
breadth, of a dark green colour; the stems grow some eighteen inches in
height. In its growth this plant resembles _C. amethystoglossa_ and _C.
Leopoldii_, but it is not so robust. Mr. Wise, the gardener, grows it in
rough fibrous peat, giving good drainage. Pot culture suits this class
of Cattleyas best. They must be well elevated above the rim of the pot,
so that the roots may run over the surface, as, when buried in the peat,
if they get over-watered, they are apt to go rotten. A little charcoal
placed on the top of the peat is advantageous, as the roots lay hold of
it freely; and it is also desirable to mix a portion with the peat, as
it renders it more porous, and allows the water to pass off more freely,
thereby helping to keep the compost sweet. This latter is a matter of
great importance to the plants, for Cattleyas, like many other Orchids,
do not like the soil in which they are planted to set too closely
together to the exclusion of fresh air from their roots. There is no
doubt the access of fresh air keeps them in a more vigorous condition.
In support of this it may be noted that in their native country they are
found on trees, where they get a free circulation of air, their roots
being merely sheltered by the small quantity of moss or decayed leaves
from the trees which may collect about them, while many of them
luxuriate with their roots suspended in the air.

This _Cattleya_ is one of those which should always be kept plump in the
stems and leaves, for if allowed to shrivel it will be found difficult
to get them again into a plump healthy condition. Give all the light
possible, so that the stems may be well ripened. A great deal of success
depends upon the thorough maturation of the successive growths, for if
they are weak or immature they will produce but puny results. The plants
require the same temperature as _C. Trianæ_.


Cattleya Mossiæ.—We have lately received from De Barry Crawshay, Esq.,
Sevenoaks, flowers of a fine series of varieties of _Cattleya Mossiæ_.
The flowers were all large and very richly marked, some of the colours
being exceedingly distinct, and the lips very large.—B. S. W.


Dendrobium Dearei.—We were agreeably surprised to see this novelty
exhibited by Sir T. Lawrence, Bart., at the Summer Show of the Royal
Horticultural Society. The flowering bulb was two feet six inches high,
and was furnished with two spikes of flowers. This species seems to
differ from the _formosum_ section of the genus, by throwing out lateral
as well as terminal spikes. The flowers were about thirty in number,
pure white, with a slight tinge of green in the throat. In shape they
resemble those of _D. Jamesianum_, but they are somewhat smaller.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 94.
    ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ GUTTATUM.]




                   ODONTOGLOSSUM ALEXANDRÆ GUTTATUM.
                              [Plate 94.]
                        _Native of New Grenada._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ ovate-oblong, compressed, green while young,
  becoming tinged with purple as they grow older, diphyllous, with one
  or two accessory ones from the base of the pseudobulbs, bright green.
  _Racemes_ proceeding from the axils of the accessory leaves, drooping.
  _Flowers_ crowded, white, beautifully spotted with bright
  chocolate-red, nearly four inches across; _sepals_ lanceolate, crispy,
  white, with a few bold spots and blotches of chocolate-red about the
  middle part; _petals_ broader and more wavy, with a solitary nearly
  central spot on each; _lip_ oblong, subcordate at the base, much
  crisped at the margin, the apex recurved so as to produce an
  emarginate appearance, white, slightly dashed with yellow on the disk,
  where there are a few longitudinal lines and a series of radiate lines
  of light red-brown, and two divergent yellow crests, the margins half
  way down being marked by confluent blotches and a few largish spots
  both on the edge and on the surface towards the front. _Column_ white,
  slightly spotted with brown.

  Odontoglossum Alexandræ guttatum, _Hooker fil._, _Botanical Magazine_,
  t. 5697: _Williams_, _Orchid Grower’s Manual_, 5 ed., 229.


There are many varieties of this charming Orchid with spotted flowers,
differing in the size of the blossoms and in the colour and amount of
the spotting, which are cultivated under different varietal names, but
the representation of the one we have now the pleasure of illustrating
will, we hope, be the means of inducing growers to range some of them as
forms of _guttatum_ instead of so greatly multiplying names, which
becomes inconvenient. We know that some of them are more distinct from
the type than others, but the fewer names we can use the more easy and
satisfactory will it be both for growers and purchasers.

We are indebted to R. Smith, Esq., Brentham Park, Stirling, for the
magnificent spike of flowers from which our plate was prepared. We much
regret not to have been able to represent it of its full size and its
natural branching habit, but our artist has given enough to show that it
is one of the most beautiful of the many named varieties. There was a
fine collection of Orchids at Brentham Park, which we regret to find is
to be broken up on account of Mr. Smith’s health.

_Odontoglossum Alexandræ guttatum_ is a compact-growing plant, with
lively green foliage, and it produces branching spikes furnished with
many flowers. When well grown, as this plant was, by Mr. McLeod, the
sepals and petals it will be seen are pure white, profusely spotted with
bright chocolate-red, while the lip is white, densely spotted with the
same colour. It blooms at different times of the year, according to the
maturation of its growth, and lasts for six weeks in perfection if the
flowers are kept dry. Too much moisture causes them to spot, so that it
is better, if possible, to move them when in flower to a drier house,
but while under these altered conditions the soil should be kept moist,
as the plants require a good supply of fluid about their roots to
prevent them from shrivelling. The best plan is to cut off the spike of
flowers and to place it in water, as when treated in this way it will
last a long time. It requires the same treatment as _O. Alexandræ_.


Lord Rendlesham’s Orchids.—We were recently favoured with a box from
Rendlesham Hall, containing the following flowers:—_Lycaste Skinneri
amabilis_. In this the flowers were very large, six and a half inches
across, the petals two inches long, bright rosy crimson, the sepals pale
blush, and the lip white, irregularly margined with bright crimson.
_Lycaste Skinneri_, a fine variety, with two flowers to a scape, the
sepals rose, the petals well recurved, bright rose, and the lip
indistinctly spotted with bright rosy crimson. _Cattleya citrina_, a
very large variety, the petals two and a half inches long and one and a
half inch broad, canary yellow, beautifully scented, the lip bright
gamboge, _Odontoglossum Alexandræ_, a grand variety, three and
three-quarter inches across, the sepals rose coloured, both sepals and
petals marked in the centre with distinct reddish-brown blotches,
_i.e._, one blotch to each, five in all; petals almost white, lip
profusely marked with small irregular spots. This is one of the most
distinct varieties we have seen.—B. S. W.


High-priced Cattleyas.—At a recent sale at Stevens’s Auction Rooms, on
the occasion of the distribution of the late Mr. R. B. Dodgson’s
Orchids, enormous prices were realised for some of the established
plants. _Cattleya Trianæ Osmanii_, a variety named some years ago by
ourselves, realised the sum of 215 guineas, and was purchased for our
own collection. _Cattleya Trianæ Dodysonii_ realised 185 guineas, end
was purchased by W. Lee, Esq., Downside, Leatherhead. We hope on some
future occasion to figure both these gems.—B.S.W.


Cattleya Skinneri oculata.—During a recent visit to the Collection of
Orchids belonging to G. Hardy, Esq., Pickering Lodge, Timperley, we
noticed a grand specimen of this splendid variety. There were seven
spikes on the plant, some carrying as many as ten flowers; the colour
was an intense mauve-magenta. Mr. Hardy grows this Cattleya extremely
well. We also noticed a grand lot of Cattleyas coming on, especially _C.
Warnerii_ and _C. Mossiæ_, together with some fine examples of _Lælia
purpurata_, showing well for flower.—H. W.

    [Illustration: PL. 95.
    CYPRIPEDIUM MEIRAX.]




                          CYPRIPEDIUM MEIRAX.
                              [Plate 95.]
                            _Garden hybrid._


  Epiphytal. Acaulescent. _Leaves_ distichous, coriaceous,
  oblong-lanceolate, acute, the upper surface of a dull dark green,
  faintly mottled with transverse markings, the underside of a dull wine
  purple. _Scape_ (peduncle) densely hairy, dark purple, with a short
  boat-shaped purplish-green bract at the base of the six-ribbed ovary.
  _Flowers_ medium-sized, solitary on the peduncle; _sepals_ hairy
  externally, glabrous and glossy within; the dorsal one broad ovate,
  about an inch in breadth, ciliate at the base, and fringed at the edge
  with whitish hairs, blush-white, with a stout central dark purple
  stripe, having on each side a short green one, and beyond that five
  others graduated in length, and of a greenish-purple colour, the
  central rib more prominently hairy at the back and tip; lower connate
  sepal oblong-ovate obtuse, whitish, with seven green ribs or veins;
  _petals_ linear-oblong, broadest upwards, two inches long and about
  half an inch broad, plane at the base, recurvo-undulate at the tip,
  the upper side (half) glossy, of a deep claret-purple, streaked with
  green at the base, somewhat ribbed, ciliate with purple hairs, the
  central rib stouter, purple, with a few round black spots distributed
  along its base, the lower half of the same colour but less glossy;
  _lip_ rather large, oblong, an inch and three-quarters long, polished,
  the sides purple, deeply inflexed and extended at the base like a pair
  of ears, the front part green and veiny towards the tip, with a short
  purple rib, deep purple towards the edge; the inside of the pouch
  yellowish-tawny, beautifully spotted with crimson. _Staminode_ large,
  roundish, deeply notched in front, dull purplish-tawny, with green
  veiny markings in the centre, shining as if varnished, thickly studded
  with short stiff hairs.

  Cypripedium Meirax, _Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’ Chronicle_,
  N.S. xiv., 524.


This is one of the many hybrids that have been raised in this country,
and which we owe to the handiwork of cultivators. It must be highly
gratifying to those who devote their time and skill to so interesting a
pursuit as the origination of new varieties, to witness the success of
their labours, and we are greatly indebted to those amateurs and
nurserymen who have so successfully carried out this process of
hybridisation. Some of the new forms produced may be disappointing, but
others are in every way encouraging, by yielding fresh forms and
colours, and in this way, through careful selection, many beautiful
flowers are originated. In their native country the wild plants are no
doubt crossed by insects, but in such cases there are, perhaps,
comparatively few forms growing sufficiently near together, and even
those not all flowering at one time. The artificial hybridiser has the
advantage of more abundant material to operate upon, and he can seize
the most favourable opportunities for crossing various forms and colours
from different localities; while by growing them together, and getting
them into flower at the same time, the operation can be performed with a
greater prospect of securing good results. We, therefore, hope that this
useful and interesting work will be carried on with spirit by our
amateur orchidophilists.

There is no class of Orchids more useful than that which forms the
subject of our plate. The flowers of the Cypripediums in most cases will
last a long time, and the plants are, moreover, of easy cultivation,
requiring but little room, and most of them possessing perennial beauty
in their nicely variegated foliage. The hybrid we now figure was raised
by R. Warner, Esq, Broomfield, Chelmsford, from whom we have procured
the stock. It was raised in company with several others, which have
proved to be most beautiful and free-blooming subjects, but of which the
parentage has not been noted.

_Cypripedium Meirax_ was named by Professor Reichenbach. It is a
small-growing form, as will be seen by our plate, but it produces good
showy flowers, the dorsal sepal being broad, white, with green and
purple veins, the petals purplish-crimson with green nerves, and the lip
veined and barred with purple. It blossoms during the winter and spring
months, according as it completes its growth, and the flowers last six
weeks or more in perfection.

The plants require the same treatment as those of the _C. barbatum_
section. The most suitable material for growing them in is rough fibrous
peat, having a small quantity of charcoal interspersed; they must have
good drainage, as they need a good supply of water during the growing
season, which follows the blooming period, and while they are making
their growths they require more water. They will thrive either in the
Cattleya house or the cool end of the East India house, near the light;
but they must be shaded from the hot sun in summer. A little sun heat,
however, will not injure them.

The Cypripediums of this character are propagated by dividing the plants
when they begin to grow, leaving one or two old growths at the back. The
divided parts should be potted in small pots until they are rooted, and
then, should they require it, larger ones may be given to them.

Insects should be kept under. Sometimes the red thrips will attack the
young leaves; this should be well sought after, for if it gets ahead the
leaves will soon turn brown, and get very much disfigured, the plant,
moreover, getting injured. A little tobacco powder applied to the leaves
is a good remedy. When the insects are found to be destroyed it can
easily be washed off.

    [Illustration: PL. 96.
    ONCIDIUM PHALÆNOPSIS.]




                         ONCIDIUM PHALÆNOPSIS.
                              [Plate 96.]
                          _Native of Ecuador._


  Epiphytal. _Pseudobulbs_ oblong, furrowed, about two inches long, of a
  dark green colour, with abortive leaves at their base. _Leaves_
  ligulate, broadest upwards, acute, somewhat narrowed and channelled
  towards the base, six to eight inches long or more, pale green.
  _Racemes_ from the axils of the abortive leaves at the base of the
  bulbs, the flowers seated on longish pedicels having small appressed
  bracts at their base. _Flowers_ narrow-oblong in outline, an inch and
  a half or more in length, and a little over an inch broad, the lip
  comparatively large and conspicuous; _sepals_ three, the dorsal one
  oblong, acute, venosely marbled with purple, and having a white
  margin, the lateral ones of the same colours, concealed by the lip,
  oblong-lanceolate, united in the lower half and directed downwards;
  _petals_ spreading, oblong-obovate apiculate, white, with two or three
  broad transverse blotches of deep rich purple, the apex white; _lip_
  pandurate, an inch long by an inch and a half broad, three-lobed, the
  lateral lobes broad, rounded, white, flushed with purple and spotted
  with dark purple-crimson, the middle lobe dilated, deeply bilobed,
  spotted at the narrow basal part, but almost wholly white in the
  broader front part, the disk, with a prominent yellow crest, having
  two projections at the base, and two acute lateral arms in front, with
  an elevated angular keel between. _Column_ short, with the sides of
  the lower edges rounded, green at the tips, the apex and margins of
  the stigmatic hollow purple.

  Oncidium Phalænopsis, _Linden and Reichenbach fil._, in _Gardeners’
  Chronicle_, 1869, 416; _E. André_, _L’Illustration Horticole_, 3 ser.,
  t. 3.


The Oncids form a large genus of Orchids, some of which are
large-growing plants with showy flowers. They form a most useful group,
and many of them are of easy cultivation, especially the large-growing
kinds, which we find in the older collections of Orchids, these being
cultivated for their long spikes of golden blossoms, which are useful
for cutting purposes, and where large vases of flowers have to be
supplied the graceful effect produced by their light airy panicles and
their bright colours is very charming.

The species we have now to bring under notice is of the small-growing
section, and requires more care and attention than some others, being
one of those kinds which are more difficult to cultivate. This section
contains many beautiful plants. Our specimen was received from the
well-grown collection of E. Salt, Esq., Ferniehurst, Shipley, near
Leeds, who has been successful in growing this rare species, which is
not often met with.

_Oncidium Phalænopsis_ is a compact evergreen plant, with small
pseudobulbs and light green leaves about eight inches in length. The
flower spike proceeds from the base of the pseudobulbs, and bears six or
more blossoms. The sepals and petals are creamy white, barred and
spotted with purple; the lip is large, white, spotted at the base with
violet-crimson, and the crest is golden-yellow. These flowers last a
long time in beauty.

The plant requires great care in cultivation, like many others of its
class, but it is worth all the care bestowed upon it. We have found it
grow well in small pots or pans with a little rough fibrous peat and
some lumps of charcoal, so that it may send its roots over the peat and
charcoal. The small-growing Orchids of this character do not like their
roots covered up, and when they are making new roots it is very
important that the insects should not be allowed to feed upon them, as
the plants require all their roots to be sound and good to keep them in
a healthy condition. They should be placed as much in the light as
possible, so that their growths may be strong and full of vigour. The
plants naturally grow on trees, in which position they get a great deal
of moisture during the rainy season, while in the dry season they get
heavy dews, and are shaded a little from the burning sun although they
get all the light possible. In our artificial treatment of these plants
we should give them their natural conditions as nearly as possible, for
by so doing we shall not go far away from the right course. We have
found the cool end of the Cattleya house to suit most of these
small-growing kinds.

We trust we may soon see a good importation of this rare _Oncidium_, so
that growers may have a chance to try their skill upon its cultivation.
The plants we have received at various times have been but small and
puny. If only growers could get over some strong vigorous clumps, they
would have a chance of making them into good specimens—an object which
is worth the effort, as the species is one of the most beautiful and
distinct of the family.




                          Transcriber’s Notes


—Retained publication information from the printed edition: this eBook
  is public-domain in the country of publication.

—Silently corrected a few palpable typos.

—Added arabic page numbers to non-plate pages.

—In the text versions only, text in italics is delimited by
  _underscores_.

—The HTML version contains links to previous volumes of _The Orchid
  Magazine_, which can be installed locally:


        Volume 1






End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of The Orchid Album, Volume 2, by 
Robert Warner and Benjamin Samuel Williams and Thomas Moore

*** END OF THIS PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE ORCHID ALBUM, VOLUME 2 ***

***** This file should be named 59109-0.txt or 59109-0.zip *****
This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
        http://www.gutenberg.org/5/9/1/0/59109/

Produced by Stephen Hutcheson, Carol Spears and the Online
Distributed Proofreading Team at http://www.pgdp.net

Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org



Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

